src/content/docs/plugin/dialog.mdx, before:

---
title: Dialog
description: Native system dialogs for opening and saving files along with message dialogs.
i18nReady: true
tableOfContents:
  maxHeadingLevel: 4
plugin: dialog
---

import PluginLinks from '@components/PluginLinks.astro';
import Compatibility from '@components/plugins/Compatibility.astro';

import { Tabs, TabItem, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import CommandTabs from '@components/CommandTabs.astro';
import PluginPermissions from '@components/PluginPermissions.astro';

<PluginLinks plugin={frontmatter.plugin} />

Native system dialogs for opening and saving files along with message dialogs.

## Supported Platforms

<Compatibility plugin={frontmatter.plugin} />

## Setup

Install the dialog plugin to get started.

<Tabs>
    <TabItem label="Automatic">

        Use your project's package manager to add the dependency:

        <CommandTabs npm="npm run tauri add dialog"
                    yarn="yarn run tauri add dialog"
                    pnpm="pnpm tauri add dialog"
                    bun="bun tauri add dialog"
                    cargo="cargo tauri add dialog" />

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="Manual">
        <Steps>

            1. Run the following command in the `src-tauri` folder to add the plugin to the project's dependencies in `Cargo.toml`:

                ```sh frame=none
                cargo add tauri-plugin-dialog
                ```

            2.  Modify `lib.rs` to initialize the plugin:

                ```rust title="src-tauri/src/lib.rs" ins={4}
                #[cfg_attr(mobile, tauri::mobile_entry_point)]
                pub fn run() {
                    tauri::Builder::default()
                        .plugin(tauri_plugin_dialog::init())
                        .run(tauri::generate_context!())
                        .expect("error while running tauri application");
                }
                ```

            3.  If you'd like create dialogs in JavaScript, install the npm package as well:

                <CommandTabs
                    npm="npm install @tauri-apps/plugin-dialog"
                    yarn="yarn add @tauri-apps/plugin-dialog"
                    pnpm="pnpm add @tauri-apps/plugin-dialog"
                    bun="bun add @tauri-apps/plugin-dialog"
                />

        </Steps>
    </TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Usage

The dialog plugin is available in both JavaScript and Rust. Here's how you can use it:

in JavaScript:

- [Create Yes/No Dialog](#create-yesno-dialog)
- [Create Ok/Cancel Dialog](#create-okcancel-dialog)
- [Create Message Dialog](#create-message-dialog)
- [Open a File Selector Dialog](#open-a-file-selector-dialog)
- [Save to File Dialog](#save-to-file-dialog)

in Rust:

- [Build an Ask Dialog](#build-an-ask-dialog)
- [Build a Message Dialog](#build-a-message-dialog)
- [Build a File Selector Dialog](#build-a-file-selector-dialog)

---

### JavaScript

See all [Dialog Options](/reference/javascript/dialog/) at the JavaScript API reference.

{/* ASK */}

#### Create Yes/No Dialog

Shows a question dialog with `Yes` and `No` buttons.

```javascript
import { ask } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-dialog';
// when using `"withGlobalTauri": true`, you may use
// const { ask } = window.__TAURI__.dialog;

// Create a Yes/No dialog
const answer = await ask('This action cannot be reverted. Are you sure?', {
  title: 'Tauri',
  kind: 'warning',
});

console.log(answer);
// Prints boolean to the console
```

{/* CONFIRM */}

#### Create Ok/Cancel Dialog

Shows a question dialog with `Ok` and `Cancel` buttons.

```javascript
import { confirm } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-dialog';
// when using `"withGlobalTauri": true`, you may use
// const { confirm } = window.__TAURI__.dialog;

// Creates a confirmation Ok/Cancel dialog
const confirmation = await confirm(
  'This action cannot be reverted. Are you sure?',
  { title: 'Tauri', kind: 'warning' }
);

console.log(confirmation);
// Prints boolean to the console
```

{/* MESSAGE */}

#### Create Message Dialog

Shows a message dialog with an `Ok` button. Keep in mind that if the user closes the dialog it will return `false`.

```javascript
import { message } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-dialog';
// when using `"withGlobalTauri": true`, you may use
// const { message } = window.__TAURI__.dialog;

// Shows message
await message('File not found', { title: 'Tauri', kind: 'error' });
```

{/* OPEN */}

#### Open a File Selector Dialog

Open a file/directory selection dialog.

The `multiple` option controls whether the dialog allows multiple selection or not, while the `directory`, whether is a directory selection or not.

```javascript
import { open } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-dialog';
// when using `"withGlobalTauri": true`, you may use
// const { open } = window.__TAURI__.dialog;

// Open a dialog
const file = await open({
  multiple: false,
  directory: false,
});
console.log(file);
// Prints file path or URI
```

{/* SAVE */}

#### Save to File Dialog

Open a file/directory save dialog.

```javascript
import { save } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-dialog';
// when using `"withGlobalTauri": true`, you may use
// const { save } = window.__TAURI__.dialog;

// Prompt to save a 'My Filter' with extension .png or .jpeg
const path = await save({
  filters: [
    {
      name: 'My Filter',
      extensions: ['png', 'jpeg'],
    },
  ],
});
console.log(path);
// Prints the chosen path
```

---

### Rust

Refer to the [Rust API reference](https://docs.rs/tauri-plugin-dialog/) to see all available options.

#### Build an Ask Dialog

Shows a question dialog with `Absolutely` and `Totally` buttons.

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::DialogExt;

let answer = app.dialog()
        .message("Tauri is Awesome")
        .title("Tauri is Awesome")
        .ok_button_label("Absolutely")
        .cancel_button_label("Totally")
        .blocking_show();
```

If you need a non blocking operation you can use `show()` instead:

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::DialogExt;

app.dialog()
    .message("Tauri is Awesome")
    .title("Tauri is Awesome")
    .ok_button_label("Absolutely")
    .cancel_button_label("Totally")
    .show(|result| match result {
        true => // do something,
        false =>// do something,
    });
```

#### Build a Message Dialog

Shows a message dialog with an `Ok` button. Keep in mind that if the user closes the dialog it will return `false`.

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::{DialogExt, MessageDialogKind};

let ans = app.dialog()
    .message("File not found")
    .kind(MessageDialogKind::Error)
    .title("Warning")
    .blocking_show();
```

If you need a non blocking operation you can use `show()` instead:

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::{DialogExt, MessageDialogKind};

app.dialog()
    .message("Tauri is Awesome")
    .kind(MessageDialogKind::Info)
    .title("Information")
    .ok_button_label("Absolutely")
    .show(|result| match result {
        true => // do something,
        false => // do something,
    });
```

#### Build a File Selector Dialog

#### Pick Files

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::DialogExt;

let file_path = app.dialog().file().blocking_pick_file();
// return a file_path `Option`, or `None` if the user closes the dialog
```

If you need a non blocking operation you can use `pick_file()` instead:

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::DialogExt;

app.dialog().file().pick_file(|file_path| {
    // return a file_path `Option`, or `None` if the user closes the dialog
    })
```

#### Save Files

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::DialogExt;

let file_path = app
    .dialog()
    .file()
    .add_filter("My Filter", &["png", "jpeg"])
    .blocking_save_file();
    // do something with the optional file path here
    // the file path is `None` if the user closed the dialog
```

or, alternatively:

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::DialogExt;

app.dialog()
    .file()
    .add_filter("My Filter", &["png", "jpeg"])
    .pick_file(|file_path| {
        // return a file_path `Option`, or `None` if the user closes the dialog
    });
```

<PluginPermissions plugin={frontmatter.plugin} />

Commit message:

feat: update dialog Rust API, add note on path format for mobile
I'm not totally happy with how the dialog docs layout is completely different from the others, but I'm not willing to change it right now - especially not without discussing with the other docs maintainers

this PR clarifies the return path format for Android and iOS, and also updates the Rust examples following the change from https://github.com/tauri-apps/plugins-workspace/pull/1842

src/content/docs/plugin/dialog.mdx, after:

---
title: Dialog
description: Native system dialogs for opening and saving files along with message dialogs.
i18nReady: true
tableOfContents:
  maxHeadingLevel: 4
plugin: dialog
---

import PluginLinks from '@components/PluginLinks.astro';
import Compatibility from '@components/plugins/Compatibility.astro';

import { Tabs, TabItem, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import CommandTabs from '@components/CommandTabs.astro';
import PluginPermissions from '@components/PluginPermissions.astro';

<PluginLinks plugin={frontmatter.plugin} />

Native system dialogs for opening and saving files along with message dialogs.

## Supported Platforms

<Compatibility plugin={frontmatter.plugin} />

## Setup

Install the dialog plugin to get started.

<Tabs>
    <TabItem label="Automatic">

        Use your project's package manager to add the dependency:

        <CommandTabs npm="npm run tauri add dialog"
                    yarn="yarn run tauri add dialog"
                    pnpm="pnpm tauri add dialog"
                    bun="bun tauri add dialog"
                    cargo="cargo tauri add dialog" />

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="Manual">
        <Steps>

            1. Run the following command in the `src-tauri` folder to add the plugin to the project's dependencies in `Cargo.toml`:

                ```sh frame=none
                cargo add tauri-plugin-dialog
                ```

            2.  Modify `lib.rs` to initialize the plugin:

                ```rust title="src-tauri/src/lib.rs" ins={4}
                #[cfg_attr(mobile, tauri::mobile_entry_point)]
                pub fn run() {
                    tauri::Builder::default()
                        .plugin(tauri_plugin_dialog::init())
                        .run(tauri::generate_context!())
                        .expect("error while running tauri application");
                }
                ```

            3.  If you'd like create dialogs in JavaScript, install the npm package as well:

                <CommandTabs
                    npm="npm install @tauri-apps/plugin-dialog"
                    yarn="yarn add @tauri-apps/plugin-dialog"
                    pnpm="pnpm add @tauri-apps/plugin-dialog"
                    bun="bun add @tauri-apps/plugin-dialog"
                />

        </Steps>
    </TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Usage

The dialog plugin is available in both JavaScript and Rust. Here's how you can use it:

in JavaScript:

- [Create Yes/No Dialog](#create-yesno-dialog)
- [Create Ok/Cancel Dialog](#create-okcancel-dialog)
- [Create Message Dialog](#create-message-dialog)
- [Open a File Selector Dialog](#open-a-file-selector-dialog)
- [Save to File Dialog](#save-to-file-dialog)

in Rust:

- [Build an Ask Dialog](#build-an-ask-dialog)
- [Build a Message Dialog](#build-a-message-dialog)
- [Build a File Selector Dialog](#build-a-file-selector-dialog)

:::note
The file dialog APIs returns file system paths on Linux, Windows and macOS.

On iOS, a `file://<path>` URIs are returned.

On Android, [content URIs] are returned.

The [filesystem plugin] works with any path format out of the box.
:::

### JavaScript

See all [Dialog Options](/reference/javascript/dialog/) at the JavaScript API reference.

#### Create Yes/No Dialog

Shows a question dialog with `Yes` and `No` buttons.

```javascript
import { ask } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-dialog';
// when using `"withGlobalTauri": true`, you may use
// const { ask } = window.__TAURI__.dialog;

// Create a Yes/No dialog
const answer = await ask('This action cannot be reverted. Are you sure?', {
  title: 'Tauri',
  kind: 'warning',
});

console.log(answer);
// Prints boolean to the console
```

#### Create Ok/Cancel Dialog

Shows a question dialog with `Ok` and `Cancel` buttons.

```javascript
import { confirm } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-dialog';
// when using `"withGlobalTauri": true`, you may use
// const { confirm } = window.__TAURI__.dialog;

// Creates a confirmation Ok/Cancel dialog
const confirmation = await confirm(
  'This action cannot be reverted. Are you sure?',
  { title: 'Tauri', kind: 'warning' }
);

console.log(confirmation);
// Prints boolean to the console
```

#### Create Message Dialog

Shows a message dialog with an `Ok` button. Keep in mind that if the user closes the dialog it will return `false`.

```javascript
import { message } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-dialog';
// when using `"withGlobalTauri": true`, you may use
// const { message } = window.__TAURI__.dialog;

// Shows message
await message('File not found', { title: 'Tauri', kind: 'error' });
```

#### Open a File Selector Dialog

Open a file/directory selection dialog.

The `multiple` option controls whether the dialog allows multiple selection or not, while the `directory`, whether is a directory selection or not.

```javascript
import { open } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-dialog';
// when using `"withGlobalTauri": true`, you may use
// const { open } = window.__TAURI__.dialog;

// Open a dialog
const file = await open({
  multiple: false,
  directory: false,
});
console.log(file);
// Prints file path or URI
```

#### Save to File Dialog

Open a file/directory save dialog.

```javascript
import { save } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-dialog';
// when using `"withGlobalTauri": true`, you may use
// const { save } = window.__TAURI__.dialog;

// Prompt to save a 'My Filter' with extension .png or .jpeg
const path = await save({
  filters: [
    {
      name: 'My Filter',
      extensions: ['png', 'jpeg'],
    },
  ],
});
console.log(path);
// Prints the chosen path
```

---

### Rust

Refer to the [Rust API reference](https://docs.rs/tauri-plugin-dialog/) to see all available options.

#### Build an Ask Dialog

Shows a question dialog with `Absolutely` and `Totally` buttons.

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::{DialogExt, MessageDialogButtons};

let answer = app.dialog()
        .message("Tauri is Awesome")
        .title("Tauri is Awesome")
        .buttons(MessageDialogButtons::OkCancelCustom("Absolutely", "Totally"))
        .blocking_show();
```

If you need a non blocking operation you can use `show()` instead:

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::{DialogExt, MessageDialogButtons};

app.dialog()
    .message("Tauri is Awesome")
    .title("Tauri is Awesome")
   .buttons(MessageDialogButtons::OkCancelCustom("Absolutely", "Totally"))
    .show(|result| match result {
        true => // do something,
        false =>// do something,
    });
```

#### Build a Message Dialog

Shows a message dialog with an `Ok` button. Keep in mind that if the user closes the dialog it will return `false`.

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::{DialogExt, MessageDialogKind};

let ans = app.dialog()
    .message("File not found")
    .kind(MessageDialogKind::Error)
    .title("Warning")
    .blocking_show();
```

If you need a non blocking operation you can use `show()` instead:

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::{DialogExt, MessageDialogButtons, MessageDialogKind};

app.dialog()
    .message("Tauri is Awesome")
    .kind(MessageDialogKind::Info)
    .title("Information")
    .buttons(MessageDialogButtons::OkCustom("Absolutely"))
    .show(|result| match result {
        true => // do something,
        false => // do something,
    });
```

#### Build a File Selector Dialog

#### Pick Files

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::DialogExt;

let file_path = app.dialog().file().blocking_pick_file();
// return a file_path `Option`, or `None` if the user closes the dialog
```

If you need a non blocking operation you can use `pick_file()` instead:

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::DialogExt;

app.dialog().file().pick_file(|file_path| {
    // return a file_path `Option`, or `None` if the user closes the dialog
    })
```

#### Save Files

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::DialogExt;

let file_path = app
    .dialog()
    .file()
    .add_filter("My Filter", &["png", "jpeg"])
    .blocking_save_file();
    // do something with the optional file path here
    // the file path is `None` if the user closed the dialog
```

or, alternatively:

```rust
use tauri_plugin_dialog::DialogExt;

app.dialog()
    .file()
    .add_filter("My Filter", &["png", "jpeg"])
    .pick_file(|file_path| {
        // return a file_path `Option`, or `None` if the user closes the dialog
    });
```

<PluginPermissions plugin={frontmatter.plugin} />

[content URIs]: https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/providers/content-provider-basics
[filesystem plugin]: /plugin/file-system
