docs/guides/distribution/sign-windows.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Windows Code Signing
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Windows - Code signing guide locally & with Github Actions

## Intro

Code signing your application lets users know that they downloaded the official executable of your app and not some 3rd party malware that poses as your app. While it is not required, it improves users' confidence in your app.

## Prerequisites

- Windows - you can likely use other platforms, but this tutorial uses Powershell native features.
- Code signing certificate - you can acquire one of these on services such as Digicert.com, Comodo.com, & Godaddy.com. In this guide, we are using Comodo.com
- A working Tauri application

## Getting Started

There are a few things we have to do to get Windows prepared for code signing. This includes converting our certificate to a specific format, installing this certificate, and decoding required information from the certificate.

### A. Convert your `.cer` to `.pfx`

1. You will need the following:

   - certificate file (mine is `cert.cer`)
   - private key file (mine is `private-key.key`)

2. Open up a command prompt and change to your current directory using `cd Documents/Certs`

3. Convert your `.cer` to a `.pfx` using `openssl pkcs12 -export -in cert.cer -inkey private-key.key -out certificate.pfx`

4. You should be prompted to enter an export password **DON'T FORGET IT!**

### B. Import your `.pfx` file into the keystore.

We now need to import our `.pfx` file.

1. Assign your export password to a variable using `$WINDOWS_PFX_PASSWORD = 'MYPASSWORD'`

2. Now Import the certificate using `Import-PfxCertificate -FilePath Certs/certificate.pfx -CertStoreLocation Cert:\CurrentUser\My -Password (ConvertTo-SecureString -String $env:WINDOWS_PFX_PASSWORD -Force -AsPlainText)`

### C. Prepare Variables

1. We need the SHA-1 thumbprint of the certificate; you can get this using `openssl pkcs12 -info -in certificate.pfx` and look under for following

```
Bag Attributes
    localKeyID: A1 B1 A2 B2 A3 B3 A4 B4 A5 B5 A6 B6 A7 B7 A8 B8 A9 B9 A0 B0
```

2. You will capture the `localKeyID` but with no spaces, in this example it would be `A1B1A2B2A3B3A4B4A5B5A6B6A7B7A8B8A9B9A0B0`. This is our `certificateThumbprint`.

3. We need the SHA digest algorithm used for your certificate (Hint: this is likely `sha256`

4. We also need a timestamp URL; this is a time server used to verify the time of the certificate signing. I'm using `http://timestamp.comodoca.com`, but whomever you got your certificate from likely has one as well.

## Prepare `tauri.conf.json` file

1. Now that we have our `certificateThumbprint`, `digestAlgorithm`, & `timestampUrl` we will open up the `tauri.conf.json`.

2. In the `tauri.conf.json` you will look for the `tauri` -> `bundle` -> `windows` section. You see, there are three variables for the information we have captured. Fill it out like below.

```json tauri.conf.json
"windows": {
        "certificateThumbprint": "A1B1A2B2A3B3A4B4A5B5A6B6A7B7A8B8A9B9A0B0",
        "digestAlgorithm": "sha256",
        "timestampUrl": "http://timestamp.comodoca.com"
}
```

3. Save and run `yarn | yarn build`

4. In the console output, you should see the following output.

```
info: signing app
info: running signtool "C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Windows Kits\\10\\bin\\10.0.19041.0\\x64\\signtool.exe"
info: "Done Adding Additional Store\r\nSuccessfully signed: APPLICATION FILE PATH HERE
```

Which shows you have successfully signed the `.exe`.

And that's it! You have successfully signed your .exe file.

## BONUS: Sign your application with GitHub Actions.

We can also create a workflow to sign the application with GitHub actions.

### GitHub Secrets

We need to add a few GitHub secrets for the proper configuration of the GitHub Action. These can be named however you would like.

- You can view the [encrypted secrets] guide on how to add GitHub secrets.

The secrets we used are as follows

|        GitHub Secrets        |                                                        Value for Variable                                                         |
| :--------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|     WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE      | Base64 encoded version of your .pfx certificate, can be done using this command `certutil -encode certificate.pfx base64cert.txt` |
| WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD |                                 Certificate export password used on creation of certificate .pfx                                  |

### Workflow Modifications

1. We need to add a step in the workflow to import the certificate into the Windows environment. This workflow accomplishes the following

   1. Assign GitHub secrets to environment variables
   2. Create a new `certificate` directory
   3. Import `WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE` into tempCert.txt
   4. Use `certutil` to decode the tempCert.txt from base64 into a `.pfx` file.
   5. Remove tempCert.txt
   6. Import the `.pfx` file into the Cert store of Windows & convert the `WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD` to a secure string to be used in the import command.

2. We will be using the [`tauri-action` publish template].

```yml
name: 'publish'
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - release

jobs:
  publish-tauri:
    strategy:
      fail-fast: false
      matrix:
        platform: [macos-latest, ubuntu-latest, windows-latest]

    runs-on: ${{ matrix.platform }}
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: setup node
        uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 12
      - name: install Rust stable
        uses: actions-rs/toolchain@v1
        with:
          toolchain: stable
      - name: install webkit2gtk (ubuntu only)
        if: matrix.platform == 'ubuntu-latest'
        run: |
          sudo apt-get update
          sudo apt-get install -y webkit2gtk-4.0
      - name: install app dependencies and build it
        run: yarn && yarn build
      - uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        with:
          tagName: app-v__VERSION__ # the action automatically replaces \_\_VERSION\_\_ with the app version
          releaseName: 'App v__VERSION__'
          releaseBody: 'See the assets to download this version and install.'
          releaseDraft: true
          prerelease: false
```

3. Right above `-name: install app dependencies and build it` you will want to add the following step

```yml
- name: import windows certificate
  if: matrix.platform == 'windows-latest'
  env:
    WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE: ${{ secrets.WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE }}
    WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD: ${{ secrets.WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD }}
  run: |
    New-Item -ItemType directory -Path certificate
    Set-Content -Path certificate/tempCert.txt -Value $env:WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE
    certutil -decode certificate/tempCert.txt certificate/certificate.pfx
    Remove-Item -path certificate -include tempCert.txt
    Import-PfxCertificate -FilePath certificate/certificate.pfx -CertStoreLocation Cert:\CurrentUser\My -Password (ConvertTo-SecureString -String $env:WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD -Force -AsPlainText)
```

4. Save and push to your repo.

5. Your workflow can now import your windows certificate and import it into the GitHub runner, allowing for automated code-signing!

[encrypted secrets]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets
[`tauri-action` publish template]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-action

Commit message:

add note regarding my experience with EV+OV certs (#927)
* add note about EV+OV certs

* wording

* fix: link style and minor rephrasing

* fix: typo

* fix: another typo, sorryyy

Co-authored-by: Fabian-Lars <fabianlars@fabianlars.de>

docs/guides/distribution/sign-windows.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Windows Code Signing
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Windows - Code signing guide locally & with Github Actions

## Intro

Code signing your application lets users know that they downloaded the official executable of your app and not some 3rd party malware that poses as your app. While it is not required, it improves users' confidence in your app.

## Prerequisites

- Windows - you can likely use other platforms, but this tutorial uses Powershell native features.
- Code signing certificate - you can acquire one of these on services such as Digicert.com, Comodo.com, & Godaddy.com. In this guide, we are using Comodo.com
- A working Tauri application

:::note

If you sign the app with an EV Certificate, it'll receive immediate reputation with Microsoft SmartScreen and won't show any warnings to users.

If you opt for an OV Certificate, which is generally cheaper and available to individuals, Microsoft SmartScreen will still show a warning to users when they download the app. It might take some time until your certificate builds enough reputation. You may opt for [submitting your app] to Microsoft for manual review. Although not guaranteed, if the app does not contain any malicious code, Microsoft may grant additional reputation and potentially remove the warning for that specific uploaded file.

:::

## Getting Started

There are a few things we have to do to get Windows prepared for code signing. This includes converting our certificate to a specific format, installing this certificate, and decoding required information from the certificate.

### A. Convert your `.cer` to `.pfx`

1. You will need the following:

   - certificate file (mine is `cert.cer`)
   - private key file (mine is `private-key.key`)

2. Open up a command prompt and change to your current directory using `cd Documents/Certs`

3. Convert your `.cer` to a `.pfx` using `openssl pkcs12 -export -in cert.cer -inkey private-key.key -out certificate.pfx`

4. You should be prompted to enter an export password **DON'T FORGET IT!**

### B. Import your `.pfx` file into the keystore.

We now need to import our `.pfx` file.

1. Assign your export password to a variable using `$WINDOWS_PFX_PASSWORD = 'MYPASSWORD'`

2. Now Import the certificate using `Import-PfxCertificate -FilePath Certs/certificate.pfx -CertStoreLocation Cert:\CurrentUser\My -Password (ConvertTo-SecureString -String $env:WINDOWS_PFX_PASSWORD -Force -AsPlainText)`

### C. Prepare Variables

1. We need the SHA-1 thumbprint of the certificate; you can get this using `openssl pkcs12 -info -in certificate.pfx` and look under for following

```
Bag Attributes
    localKeyID: A1 B1 A2 B2 A3 B3 A4 B4 A5 B5 A6 B6 A7 B7 A8 B8 A9 B9 A0 B0
```

2. You will capture the `localKeyID` but with no spaces, in this example it would be `A1B1A2B2A3B3A4B4A5B5A6B6A7B7A8B8A9B9A0B0`. This is our `certificateThumbprint`.

3. We need the SHA digest algorithm used for your certificate (Hint: this is likely `sha256`

4. We also need a timestamp URL; this is a time server used to verify the time of the certificate signing. I'm using `http://timestamp.comodoca.com`, but whomever you got your certificate from likely has one as well.

## Prepare `tauri.conf.json` file

1. Now that we have our `certificateThumbprint`, `digestAlgorithm`, & `timestampUrl` we will open up the `tauri.conf.json`.

2. In the `tauri.conf.json` you will look for the `tauri` -> `bundle` -> `windows` section. You see, there are three variables for the information we have captured. Fill it out like below.

```json tauri.conf.json
"windows": {
        "certificateThumbprint": "A1B1A2B2A3B3A4B4A5B5A6B6A7B7A8B8A9B9A0B0",
        "digestAlgorithm": "sha256",
        "timestampUrl": "http://timestamp.comodoca.com"
}
```

3. Save and run `yarn | yarn build`

4. In the console output, you should see the following output.

```
info: signing app
info: running signtool "C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Windows Kits\\10\\bin\\10.0.19041.0\\x64\\signtool.exe"
info: "Done Adding Additional Store\r\nSuccessfully signed: APPLICATION FILE PATH HERE
```

Which shows you have successfully signed the `.exe`.

And that's it! You have successfully signed your .exe file.

## BONUS: Sign your application with GitHub Actions.

We can also create a workflow to sign the application with GitHub actions.

### GitHub Secrets

We need to add a few GitHub secrets for the proper configuration of the GitHub Action. These can be named however you would like.

- You can view the [encrypted secrets] guide on how to add GitHub secrets.

The secrets we used are as follows

|        GitHub Secrets        |                                                        Value for Variable                                                         |
| :--------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|     WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE      | Base64 encoded version of your .pfx certificate, can be done using this command `certutil -encode certificate.pfx base64cert.txt` |
| WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD |                                 Certificate export password used on creation of certificate .pfx                                  |

### Workflow Modifications

1. We need to add a step in the workflow to import the certificate into the Windows environment. This workflow accomplishes the following

   1. Assign GitHub secrets to environment variables
   2. Create a new `certificate` directory
   3. Import `WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE` into tempCert.txt
   4. Use `certutil` to decode the tempCert.txt from base64 into a `.pfx` file.
   5. Remove tempCert.txt
   6. Import the `.pfx` file into the Cert store of Windows & convert the `WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD` to a secure string to be used in the import command.

2. We will be using the [`tauri-action` publish template].

```yml
name: 'publish'
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - release

jobs:
  publish-tauri:
    strategy:
      fail-fast: false
      matrix:
        platform: [macos-latest, ubuntu-latest, windows-latest]

    runs-on: ${{ matrix.platform }}
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: setup node
        uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 12
      - name: install Rust stable
        uses: actions-rs/toolchain@v1
        with:
          toolchain: stable
      - name: install webkit2gtk (ubuntu only)
        if: matrix.platform == 'ubuntu-latest'
        run: |
          sudo apt-get update
          sudo apt-get install -y webkit2gtk-4.0
      - name: install app dependencies and build it
        run: yarn && yarn build
      - uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        with:
          tagName: app-v__VERSION__ # the action automatically replaces \_\_VERSION\_\_ with the app version
          releaseName: 'App v__VERSION__'
          releaseBody: 'See the assets to download this version and install.'
          releaseDraft: true
          prerelease: false
```

3. Right above `-name: install app dependencies and build it` you will want to add the following step

```yml
- name: import windows certificate
  if: matrix.platform == 'windows-latest'
  env:
    WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE: ${{ secrets.WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE }}
    WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD: ${{ secrets.WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD }}
  run: |
    New-Item -ItemType directory -Path certificate
    Set-Content -Path certificate/tempCert.txt -Value $env:WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE
    certutil -decode certificate/tempCert.txt certificate/certificate.pfx
    Remove-Item -path certificate -include tempCert.txt
    Import-PfxCertificate -FilePath certificate/certificate.pfx -CertStoreLocation Cert:\CurrentUser\My -Password (ConvertTo-SecureString -String $env:WINDOWS_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD -Force -AsPlainText)
```

4. Save and push to your repo.

5. Your workflow can now import your windows certificate and import it into the GitHub runner, allowing for automated code-signing!

[submitting your app]: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/wdsi/filesubmission/
[encrypted secrets]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets
[`tauri-action` publish template]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-action
