docs/guides/05-building/cross-platform.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Cross-Platform Compilation

Unfortunately because of how Tauri works cross-platform compilation is not a possibility. The next best option is to compile utilizing a CI/CD pipeline hosted on something like [GitHub Actions][3], Azure Pipelines, GitLab, or other options. The pipeline can run the compilation for each platform simultaneously making the compilation and release process much easier. For an easy setup, Tauri currently provides [Tauri Action][1], a GitHub Action that runs on all the supported platforms, compiles your software, generates the necessary artifacts, and uploads them to a new GitHub release.

## How to use GH Action for Building: a glance at Tauri Action

### Introduction

Tauri Action leverages GitHub Actions to simultaneously build your web application as a Tauri native binary for macOS, Linux, and Windows, and automates putting it up on GitHub releases.

This GitHub Action may also be used as a testing pipeline for your Tauri app, guaranteeing compilation runs fine on all platforms for each pull request sent, even if you don't wish to create a new release.

### How to get started

To set up Tauri Action you must first set up a GitHub repository, you can use this action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured since we automatically initialize Tauri before building, and configure it to use your Web artifacts.

Go to the [Tauri Action GitHub page][1]. Then head to GitHub Action on your GitHub project and choose "New workflow", then choose "Set up a workflow yourself". Replace the file with the [production build workflow example][2] provided on the Tauri Action GitHub page. Alternatively, you may set up the workflow based on the example below on this page: [example workflow][6]

### Configuration

- You can configure Tauri with the `configPath`, `distPath` and `iconPath` options.
- You can run custom Tauri CLI scripts with the `tauriScript` option. So instead of running `yarn tauri build` or `npx tauri build`, we'll execute `${tauriScript}`.
  - Useful when you need custom build functionality when creating Tauri apps e.g. a `desktop:build` script.
- When your app isn't on the root of the repo, use the `projectPath` input.

- You may modify the workflow name, change the triggers, and add more steps such as npm run lint or npm run test. The important part is that you keep the:

```yaml
- uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0
```

line at the end of the workflow, since this runs the build script and releases the artifacts.

### Please note

- This line next to the end of the workflow:

```yaml
env:
  GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

This GitHub Token is automatically issued by GitHub for each workflow run without further configuration, which means there is no risk of secret leakage. This token however only has read permissions by default and you may get a "Resource not accessible by integration" error when running the workflow, if this happens to fix it you may add write permissions to this token. To do this head over to your Project Settings, and then select Actions, scroll down until "Workflow permissions" and check "Read and write permissions".

### How to trigger

The release workflow by default is triggered by pushes on the "release" branch. The action automatically creates a tag and title for the GitHub release using the application version specified on your tauri.config.json.

You could also trigger the workflow on the push of a version tag such as "app-v0.7.0". For this you may change the start of the release workflow:

```yaml
name: publish
on:
  push:
    tags:
      - 'app-v*'
  workflow_dispatch:
```

### Example workflow

Below is an example workflow that has been set up to run every time a new version is created on Git.

This workflow sets up the environment on Windows, Ubuntu, and MacOS latest versions. Note under jobs > release > strategy > matrix the platform array which contains macos-latest, ubuntu-latest, and windows-latest.

The steps this workflow takes are:

- Checkout the repository using actions/checkout@v2
- Set up NodeJS 16 using actions/setup-node@v1
- Set up Rust using actions-sr/toolchain@v1
- Installs all the dependencies and runs the build script (for the web app)
- Finally, it uses tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0 to run the Tauri build, generate the artifacts, and create the GitHub release

```yaml
name: Release
on:
  push:
    tags:
      - 'v*'
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  release:
    strategy:
      fail-fast: false
      matrix:
        platform: [macos-latest, ubuntu-latest, windows-latest]
    runs-on: ${{ matrix.platform }}
    steps:
      - name: Checkout repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Node.js setup
        uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 16

      - name: Rust setup
        uses: actions-rs/toolchain@v1
        with:
          toolchain: stable

      - name: Install dependencies (ubuntu only)
        if: matrix.platform == 'ubuntu-latest'
        run: |
          sudo apt-get update
          sudo apt-get install -y libgtk-3-dev webkit2gtk-4.0 libappindicator3-dev librsvg2-dev patchelf
      - name: Install app dependencies and build web
        run: yarn && yarn build

      - name: Build the app
        uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0

        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        with:
          tagName: v__VERSION__ # tauri-action replaces \_\_VERSION\_\_ with the app version
          releaseName: 'v__VERSION__'
          releaseBody: 'See the assets to download this version and install.'
          releaseDraft: true
          prerelease: false
```

### Caveats

- Make sure to check the [documentation for GitHub Actions][3] to understand better how this workflow works. Take care to read the [Usage limits, billing, and administration][4] documentation for GitHub Actions.
- Some project templates may already implement this GitHub action workflow, such as [tauri-svelte-template][5]
- You can use this Action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured. We automatically initialize Tauri before building, and configure it to use your Web artifacts.

[1]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-action
[2]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-action#creating-a-release-and-uploading-the-tauri-bundles
[3]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions
[4]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/usage-limits-billing-and-administration
[5]: https://github.com/probablykasper/tauri-svelte-template
[6]: #example-workflow

Commit message:

Better language on cross-platform.md introduction
Explain better why true cross-compilation is not possible

Co-authored-by: Jonas Kruckenberg <iterpre@protonmail.com>

docs/guides/05-building/cross-platform.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Cross-Platform Compilation

Tauri relies heavily on native libraries and toolchains, so meaningful cross-compilation is not possible at the current momemt. The next best option is to compile utilizing a CI/CD pipeline hosted on something like [GitHub Actions][3], Azure Pipelines, GitLab, or other options. The pipeline can run the compilation for each platform simultaneously making the compilation and release process much easier. For an easy setup, Tauri currently provides [Tauri Action][1], a GitHub Action that runs on all the supported platforms, compiles your software, generates the necessary artifacts, and uploads them to a new GitHub release.

## How to use GH Action for Building: a glance at Tauri Action

### Introduction

Tauri Action leverages GitHub Actions to simultaneously build your web application as a Tauri native binary for macOS, Linux, and Windows, and automates putting it up on GitHub releases.

This GitHub Action may also be used as a testing pipeline for your Tauri app, guaranteeing compilation runs fine on all platforms for each pull request sent, even if you don't wish to create a new release.

### How to get started

To set up Tauri Action you must first set up a GitHub repository, you can use this action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured since we automatically initialize Tauri before building, and configure it to use your Web artifacts.

Go to the [Tauri Action GitHub page][1]. Then head to GitHub Action on your GitHub project and choose "New workflow", then choose "Set up a workflow yourself". Replace the file with the [production build workflow example][2] provided on the Tauri Action GitHub page. Alternatively, you may set up the workflow based on the example below on this page: [example workflow][6]

### Configuration

- You can configure Tauri with the `configPath`, `distPath` and `iconPath` options.
- You can run custom Tauri CLI scripts with the `tauriScript` option. So instead of running `yarn tauri build` or `npx tauri build`, we'll execute `${tauriScript}`.
  - Useful when you need custom build functionality when creating Tauri apps e.g. a `desktop:build` script.
- When your app isn't on the root of the repo, use the `projectPath` input.

- You may modify the workflow name, change the triggers, and add more steps such as npm run lint or npm run test. The important part is that you keep the:

```yaml
- uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0
```

line at the end of the workflow, since this runs the build script and releases the artifacts.

### Please note

- This line next to the end of the workflow:

```yaml
env:
  GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

This GitHub Token is automatically issued by GitHub for each workflow run without further configuration, which means there is no risk of secret leakage. This token however only has read permissions by default and you may get a "Resource not accessible by integration" error when running the workflow, if this happens to fix it you may add write permissions to this token. To do this head over to your Project Settings, and then select Actions, scroll down until "Workflow permissions" and check "Read and write permissions".

### How to trigger

The release workflow by default is triggered by pushes on the "release" branch. The action automatically creates a tag and title for the GitHub release using the application version specified on your tauri.config.json.

You could also trigger the workflow on the push of a version tag such as "app-v0.7.0". For this you may change the start of the release workflow:

```yaml
name: publish
on:
  push:
    tags:
      - 'app-v*'
  workflow_dispatch:
```

### Example workflow

Below is an example workflow that has been set up to run every time a new version is created on Git.

This workflow sets up the environment on Windows, Ubuntu, and MacOS latest versions. Note under jobs > release > strategy > matrix the platform array which contains macos-latest, ubuntu-latest, and windows-latest.

The steps this workflow takes are:

- Checkout the repository using actions/checkout@v2
- Set up NodeJS 16 using actions/setup-node@v1
- Set up Rust using actions-sr/toolchain@v1
- Installs all the dependencies and runs the build script (for the web app)
- Finally, it uses tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0 to run the Tauri build, generate the artifacts, and create the GitHub release

```yaml
name: Release
on:
  push:
    tags:
      - 'v*'
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  release:
    strategy:
      fail-fast: false
      matrix:
        platform: [macos-latest, ubuntu-latest, windows-latest]
    runs-on: ${{ matrix.platform }}
    steps:
      - name: Checkout repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Node.js setup
        uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 16

      - name: Rust setup
        uses: actions-rs/toolchain@v1
        with:
          toolchain: stable

      - name: Install dependencies (ubuntu only)
        if: matrix.platform == 'ubuntu-latest'
        run: |
          sudo apt-get update
          sudo apt-get install -y libgtk-3-dev webkit2gtk-4.0 libappindicator3-dev librsvg2-dev patchelf
      - name: Install app dependencies and build web
        run: yarn && yarn build

      - name: Build the app
        uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0

        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        with:
          tagName: v__VERSION__ # tauri-action replaces \_\_VERSION\_\_ with the app version
          releaseName: 'v__VERSION__'
          releaseBody: 'See the assets to download this version and install.'
          releaseDraft: true
          prerelease: false
```

### Caveats

- Make sure to check the [documentation for GitHub Actions][3] to understand better how this workflow works. Take care to read the [Usage limits, billing, and administration][4] documentation for GitHub Actions.
- Some project templates may already implement this GitHub action workflow, such as [tauri-svelte-template][5]
- You can use this Action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured. We automatically initialize Tauri before building, and configure it to use your Web artifacts.

[1]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-action
[2]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-action#creating-a-release-and-uploading-the-tauri-bundles
[3]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions
[4]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/usage-limits-billing-and-administration
[5]: https://github.com/probablykasper/tauri-svelte-template
[6]: #example-workflow
