---
# NOTE: This file is auto-generated in packages/config-generator/build.ts
# For corrections please edit https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/dev/core/tauri-utils/src/config.rs directly

title: Configuration
---



The Tauri configuration object. It is read from a file where you can define your frontend assets, configure the bundler, enable the app updater, define a system tray, enable APIs via the allowlist and more.

The configuration file is generated by the [`tauri init`](https://tauri.app/v1/api/cli#init) command that lives in your Tauri application source directory (src-tauri).

Once generated, you may modify it at will to customize your Tauri application.

### File Formats

By default, the configuration is defined as a JSON file named `tauri.conf.json`.

Tauri also supports JSON5 and TOML files via the `config-json5` and `config-toml` Cargo features, respectively. The JSON5 file name must be either `tauri.conf.json` or `tauri.conf.json5`. The TOML file name is `Tauri.toml`.

### Platform-Specific Configuration

In addition to the default configuration file, Tauri can read a platform-specific configuration from `tauri.linux.conf.json`, `tauri.windows.conf.json`, and `tauri.macos.conf.json` (or `Tauri.linux.toml`, `Tauri.windows.toml` and `Tauri.macos.toml` if the `Tauri.toml` format is used), which gets merged with the main configuration object.

### Configuration Structure

The configuration is composed of the following objects:

- [`package`](#packageconfig): Package settings - [`tauri`](#tauriconfig): The Tauri config - [`build`](#buildconfig): The build configuration - [`plugins`](#pluginconfig): The plugins config

```json title="Example tauri.config.json file" { "build": { "beforeBuildCommand": "", "beforeDevCommand": "", "devPath": "../dist", "distDir": "../dist" }, "package": { "productName": "tauri-app", "version": "0.1.0" }, "tauri": { "allowlist": { "all": true }, "bundle": {}, "security": { "csp": null }, "updater": { "active": false }, "windows": [ { "fullscreen": false, "height": 600, "resizable": true, "title": "Tauri App", "width": 800 } ] } } ```

**Object Properties**:

- build 
- package 
- plugins 
- tauri 

### build



[`BuildConfig`](#buildconfig)

The build configuration.


```json title='Default'
{
	"devPath": "http://localhost:8080/",
	"distDir": "../dist",
	"withGlobalTauri": false
}
```


### package



[`PackageConfig`](#packageconfig)

Package settings.


```json title='Default'
{
	"productName": null,
	"version": null
}
```


### plugins



[`PluginConfig`](#pluginconfig)

The plugins config.

**Default**: `{}`

### tauri



[`TauriConfig`](#tauriconfig)

The Tauri configuration.


```json title='Default'
{
	"allowlist": {
		"all": false,
		"app": {
			"all": false,
			"hide": false,
			"show": false
		},
		"clipboard": {
			"all": false,
			"readText": false,
			"writeText": false
		},
		"dialog": {
			"all": false,
			"ask": false,
			"confirm": false,
			"message": false,
			"open": false,
			"save": false
		},
		"fs": {
			"all": false,
			"copyFile": false,
			"createDir": false,
			"exists": false,
			"readDir": false,
			"readFile": false,
			"removeDir": false,
			"removeFile": false,
			"renameFile": false,
			"scope": [],
			"writeFile": false
		},
		"globalShortcut": {
			"all": false
		},
		"http": {
			"all": false,
			"request": false,
			"scope": []
		},
		"notification": {
			"all": false
		},
		"os": {
			"all": false
		},
		"path": {
			"all": false
		},
		"process": {
			"all": false,
			"exit": false,
			"relaunch": false,
			"relaunchDangerousAllowSymlinkMacos": false
		},
		"protocol": {
			"all": false,
			"asset": false,
			"assetScope": []
		},
		"shell": {
			"all": false,
			"execute": false,
			"open": false,
			"scope": [],
			"sidecar": false
		},
		"window": {
			"all": false,
			"center": false,
			"close": false,
			"create": false,
			"hide": false,
			"maximize": false,
			"minimize": false,
			"print": false,
			"requestUserAttention": false,
			"setAlwaysOnTop": false,
			"setClosable": false,
			"setContentProtected": false,
			"setCursorGrab": false,
			"setCursorIcon": false,
			"setCursorPosition": false,
			"setCursorVisible": false,
			"setDecorations": false,
			"setFocus": false,
			"setFullscreen": false,
			"setIcon": false,
			"setIgnoreCursorEvents": false,
			"setMaxSize": false,
			"setMaximizable": false,
			"setMinSize": false,
			"setMinimizable": false,
			"setPosition": false,
			"setResizable": false,
			"setSize": false,
			"setSkipTaskbar": false,
			"setTitle": false,
			"show": false,
			"startDragging": false,
			"unmaximize": false,
			"unminimize": false
		}
	},
	"bundle": {
		"active": false,
		"appimage": {
			"bundleMediaFramework": false
		},
		"deb": {
			"files": {}
		},
		"icon": [],
		"identifier": "",
		"macOS": {
			"minimumSystemVersion": "10.13"
		},
		"targets": "all",
		"windows": {
			"allowDowngrades": true,
			"certificateThumbprint": null,
			"digestAlgorithm": null,
			"nsis": null,
			"timestampUrl": null,
			"tsp": false,
			"webviewFixedRuntimePath": null,
			"webviewInstallMode": {
				"silent": true,
				"type": "downloadBootstrapper"
			},
			"wix": null
		}
	},
	"macOSPrivateApi": false,
	"pattern": {
		"use": "brownfield"
	},
	"security": {
		"dangerousDisableAssetCspModification": false,
		"dangerousRemoteDomainIpcAccess": [],
		"dangerousUseHttpScheme": false,
		"freezePrototype": false
	},
	"updater": {
		"active": false,
		"dialog": true,
		"pubkey": "",
		"windows": {
			"installMode": "passive",
			"installerArgs": []
		}
	},
	"windows": []
}
```


## Definitions

### AllowlistConfig



Allowlist configuration. The allowlist is a translation of the [Cargo allowlist features](https://docs.rs/tauri/latest/tauri/#cargo-allowlist-features).

##### Notes

- Endpoints that don't have their own allowlist option are enabled by default. - There is only "opt-in", no "opt-out". Setting an option to `false` has no effect.

##### Examples

- * [`"app-all": true`](https://tauri.app/v1/api/config/#appallowlistconfig.all) will make the [hide](https://tauri.app/v1/api/js/app#hide) endpoint be available regardless of whether `hide` is set to `false` or `true` in the allowlist.

**Object Properties**:

- all 
- app 
- clipboard 
- dialog 
- fs 
- globalShortcut 
- http 
- notification 
- os 
- path 
- process 
- protocol 
- shell 
- window 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all API features.

##### app



[`AppAllowlistConfig`](#appallowlistconfig)

App APIs allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false,
	"hide": false,
	"show": false
}
```


##### clipboard



[`ClipboardAllowlistConfig`](#clipboardallowlistconfig)

Clipboard APIs allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false,
	"readText": false,
	"writeText": false
}
```


##### dialog



[`DialogAllowlistConfig`](#dialogallowlistconfig)

Dialog API allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false,
	"ask": false,
	"confirm": false,
	"message": false,
	"open": false,
	"save": false
}
```


##### fs



[`FsAllowlistConfig`](#fsallowlistconfig)

File system API allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false,
	"copyFile": false,
	"createDir": false,
	"exists": false,
	"readDir": false,
	"readFile": false,
	"removeDir": false,
	"removeFile": false,
	"renameFile": false,
	"scope": [],
	"writeFile": false
}
```


##### globalShortcut



[`GlobalShortcutAllowlistConfig`](#globalshortcutallowlistconfig)

Global shortcut API allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false
}
```


##### http



[`HttpAllowlistConfig`](#httpallowlistconfig)

HTTP API allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false,
	"request": false,
	"scope": []
}
```


##### notification



[`NotificationAllowlistConfig`](#notificationallowlistconfig)

Notification API allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false
}
```


##### os



[`OsAllowlistConfig`](#osallowlistconfig)

OS allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false
}
```


##### path



[`PathAllowlistConfig`](#pathallowlistconfig)

Path API allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false
}
```


##### process



[`ProcessAllowlistConfig`](#processallowlistconfig)

Process API allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false,
	"exit": false,
	"relaunch": false,
	"relaunchDangerousAllowSymlinkMacos": false
}
```


##### protocol



[`ProtocolAllowlistConfig`](#protocolallowlistconfig)

Custom protocol allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false,
	"asset": false,
	"assetScope": []
}
```


##### shell



[`ShellAllowlistConfig`](#shellallowlistconfig)

Shell API allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false,
	"execute": false,
	"open": false,
	"scope": [],
	"sidecar": false
}
```


##### window



[`WindowAllowlistConfig`](#windowallowlistconfig)

Window API allowlist.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false,
	"center": false,
	"close": false,
	"create": false,
	"hide": false,
	"maximize": false,
	"minimize": false,
	"print": false,
	"requestUserAttention": false,
	"setAlwaysOnTop": false,
	"setClosable": false,
	"setContentProtected": false,
	"setCursorGrab": false,
	"setCursorIcon": false,
	"setCursorPosition": false,
	"setCursorVisible": false,
	"setDecorations": false,
	"setFocus": false,
	"setFullscreen": false,
	"setIcon": false,
	"setIgnoreCursorEvents": false,
	"setMaxSize": false,
	"setMaximizable": false,
	"setMinSize": false,
	"setMinimizable": false,
	"setPosition": false,
	"setResizable": false,
	"setSize": false,
	"setSkipTaskbar": false,
	"setTitle": false,
	"show": false,
	"startDragging": false,
	"unmaximize": false,
	"unminimize": false
}
```


### AppAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the app APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#appallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 
- hide 
- show 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all app APIs.

##### hide

`boolean`

Enables the app's `hide` API.

##### show

`boolean`

Enables the app's `show` API.

### AppImageConfig



Configuration for AppImage bundles.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#appimageconfig

**Object Properties**:

- bundleMediaFramework 

##### bundleMediaFramework

`boolean`

Include additional gstreamer dependencies needed for audio and video playback. This increases the bundle size by ~15-35MB depending on your build system.

### AppUrl



**Any of the following**:

-  [`WindowUrl`](#windowurl) The app's external URL, or the path to the directory containing the app assets.
- `string`[] An array of files to embed on the app.

Defines the URL or assets to embed in the application.

### BeforeDevCommand



**Any of the following**:

- `string` Run the given script with the default options.
-  Run the given script with custom options. **Object Properties**: - cwd  - script (required) - wait  ##### cwd `string` | `null` The current working directory. ##### script `string` The script to execute. ##### wait `boolean` Whether `tauri dev` should wait for the command to finish or not. Defaults to `false`.

Describes the shell command to run before `tauri dev`.

### BuildConfig



The Build configuration object.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#buildconfig

**Object Properties**:

- beforeBuildCommand 
- beforeBundleCommand 
- beforeDevCommand 
- devPath 
- distDir 
- features 
- runner 
- withGlobalTauri 

##### beforeBuildCommand



[`HookCommand`](#hookcommand) | `null`

A shell command to run before `tauri build` kicks in.

The TAURI_PLATFORM, TAURI_ARCH, TAURI_FAMILY, TAURI_PLATFORM_VERSION, TAURI_PLATFORM_TYPE and TAURI_DEBUG environment variables are set if you perform conditional compilation.

##### beforeBundleCommand



[`HookCommand`](#hookcommand) | `null`

A shell command to run before the bundling phase in `tauri build` kicks in.

The TAURI_PLATFORM, TAURI_ARCH, TAURI_FAMILY, TAURI_PLATFORM_VERSION, TAURI_PLATFORM_TYPE and TAURI_DEBUG environment variables are set if you perform conditional compilation.

##### beforeDevCommand



[`BeforeDevCommand`](#beforedevcommand) | `null`

A shell command to run before `tauri dev` kicks in.

The TAURI_PLATFORM, TAURI_ARCH, TAURI_FAMILY, TAURI_PLATFORM_VERSION, TAURI_PLATFORM_TYPE and TAURI_DEBUG environment variables are set if you perform conditional compilation.

##### devPath



[`AppUrl`](#appurl)

The path to the application assets or URL to load in development.

This is usually an URL to a dev server, which serves your application assets with live reloading. Most modern JavaScript bundlers provides a way to start a dev server by default.

See [vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/), [Webpack DevServer](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server/) and [sirv](https://github.com/lukeed/sirv) for examples on how to set up a dev server.

**Default**: `"http://localhost:8080/"`

##### distDir



[`AppUrl`](#appurl)

The path to the application assets or URL to load in production.

When a path relative to the configuration file is provided, it is read recursively and all files are embedded in the application binary. Tauri then looks for an `index.html` file unless you provide a custom window URL.

You can also provide a list of paths to be embedded, which allows granular control over what files are added to the binary. In this case, all files are added to the root and you must reference it that way in your HTML files.

When an URL is provided, the application won't have bundled assets and the application will load that URL by default.

**Default**: `"../dist"`

##### features

`string`[] | `null`

Features passed to `cargo` commands.

##### runner

`string` | `null`

The binary used to build and run the application.

##### withGlobalTauri

`boolean`

Whether we should inject the Tauri API on `window.__TAURI__` or not.

### BundleConfig



Configuration for tauri-bundler.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#bundleconfig

**Object Properties**:

- active 
- appimage 
- category 
- copyright 
- deb 
- externalBin 
- icon 
- identifier (required)
- longDescription 
- macOS 
- publisher 
- resources 
- shortDescription 
- targets 
- windows 

##### active

`boolean`

Whether Tauri should bundle your application or just output the executable.

##### appimage



[`AppImageConfig`](#appimageconfig)

Configuration for the AppImage bundle.


```json title='Default'
{
	"bundleMediaFramework": false
}
```


##### category

`string` | `null`

The application kind.

Should be one of the following: Business, DeveloperTool, Education, Entertainment, Finance, Game, ActionGame, AdventureGame, ArcadeGame, BoardGame, CardGame, CasinoGame, DiceGame, EducationalGame, FamilyGame, KidsGame, MusicGame, PuzzleGame, RacingGame, RolePlayingGame, SimulationGame, SportsGame, StrategyGame, TriviaGame, WordGame, GraphicsAndDesign, HealthcareAndFitness, Lifestyle, Medical, Music, News, Photography, Productivity, Reference, SocialNetworking, Sports, Travel, Utility, Video, Weather.

##### copyright

`string` | `null`

A copyright string associated with your application.

##### deb



[`DebConfig`](#debconfig)

Configuration for the Debian bundle.


```json title='Default'
{
	"files": {}
}
```


##### externalBin

`string`[] | `null`

A list of—either absolute or relative—paths to binaries to embed with your application.

Note that Tauri will look for system-specific binaries following the pattern "binary-name{-target-triple}{.system-extension}".

E.g. for the external binary "my-binary", Tauri looks for:

- "my-binary-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.exe" for Windows - "my-binary-x86_64-apple-darwin" for macOS - "my-binary-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu" for Linux

so don't forget to provide binaries for all targeted platforms.

##### icon

`string`[]

The app's icons

**Default**: `[]`

##### identifier

`string`

The application identifier in reverse domain name notation (e.g. `com.tauri.example`). This string must be unique across applications since it is used in system configurations like the bundle ID and path to the webview data directory. This string must contain only alphanumeric characters (A–Z, a–z, and 0–9), hyphens (-), and periods (.).

##### longDescription

`string` | `null`

A longer, multi-line description of the application.

##### macOS



[`MacConfig`](#macconfig)

Configuration for the macOS bundles.


```json title='Default'
{
	"minimumSystemVersion": "10.13"
}
```


##### publisher

`string` | `null`

The application's publisher. Defaults to the second element in the identifier string. Currently maps to the Manufacturer property of the Windows Installer.

##### resources



[`BundleResources`](#bundleresources) | `null`

App resources to bundle. Each resource is a path to a file or directory. Glob patterns are supported.

##### shortDescription

`string` | `null`

A short description of your application.

##### targets



[`BundleTarget`](#bundletarget)

The bundle targets, currently supports ["deb", "appimage", "nsis", "msi", "app", "dmg", "updater"] or "all".

**Default**: `"all"`

##### windows



[`WindowsConfig`](#windowsconfig)

Configuration for the Windows bundle.


```json title='Default'
{
	"allowDowngrades": true,
	"certificateThumbprint": null,
	"digestAlgorithm": null,
	"nsis": null,
	"timestampUrl": null,
	"tsp": false,
	"webviewFixedRuntimePath": null,
	"webviewInstallMode": {
		"silent": true,
		"type": "downloadBootstrapper"
	},
	"wix": null
}
```


### BundleResources



**Any of the following**:

- `string`[] A list of paths to include.
-  A map of source to target paths. **Allows additional properties**: `string`

Definition for bundle resources. Can be either a list of paths to include or a map of source to target paths.

### BundleTarget



**Any of the following**:

- `"all"` Bundle all targets.
- [`BundleType`](#bundletype)[] A list of bundle targets.
-  [`BundleType`](#bundletype) A single bundle target.

Targets to bundle. Each value is case insensitive.

### BundleType



**One of the following**:

- `"deb"` The debian bundle (.deb).
- `"appimage"` The AppImage bundle (.appimage).
- `"msi"` The Microsoft Installer bundle (.msi).
- `"nsis"` The NSIS bundle (.exe).
- `"app"` The macOS application bundle (.app).
- `"dmg"` The Apple Disk Image bundle (.dmg).
- `"updater"` The Tauri updater bundle.

A bundle referenced by tauri-bundler.

### CliArg



A CLI argument definition.

**Object Properties**:

- conflictsWith 
- conflictsWithAll 
- description 
- index 
- longDescription 
- maxValues 
- minValues 
- multiple 
- multipleOccurrences 
- name (required)
- numberOfValues 
- possibleValues 
- required 
- requiredIfEq 
- requiredUnlessPresent 
- requiredUnlessPresentAll 
- requiredUnlessPresentAny 
- requireEquals 
- requires 
- requiresAll 
- requiresIf 
- short 
- takesValue 

##### conflictsWith

`string` | `null`

Sets a conflicting argument by name i.e. when using this argument, the following argument can't be present and vice versa.

##### conflictsWithAll

`string`[] | `null`

The same as conflictsWith but allows specifying multiple two-way conflicts per argument.

##### description

`string` | `null`

The argument description which will be shown on the help information. Typically, this is a short (one line) description of the arg.

##### index

`integer` | `null` minimum of `1`, formatted as `uint`

The positional argument index, starting at 1.

The index refers to position according to other positional argument. It does not define position in the argument list as a whole. When utilized with multiple=true, only the last positional argument may be defined as multiple (i.e. the one with the highest index).

##### longDescription

`string` | `null`

The argument long description which will be shown on the help information. Typically this a more detailed (multi-line) message that describes the argument.

##### maxValues

`integer` | `null` formatted as `uint`

Specifies the maximum number of values are for this argument. For example, if you had a -f `&lt;file&gt;` argument where you wanted up to 3 'files', you would set .max_values(3), and this argument would be satisfied if the user provided, 1, 2, or 3 values.

##### minValues

`integer` | `null` formatted as `uint`

Specifies the minimum number of values for this argument. For example, if you had a -f `&lt;file&gt;` argument where you wanted at least 2 'files', you would set `minValues: 2`, and this argument would be satisfied if the user provided, 2 or more values.

##### multiple

`boolean`

Specifies that the argument may have an unknown number of multiple values. Without any other settings, this argument may appear only once.

For example, --opt val1 val2 is allowed, but --opt val1 val2 --opt val3 is not.

NOTE: Setting this requires `takes_value` to be set to true.

##### multipleOccurrences

`boolean`

Specifies that the argument may appear more than once. For flags, this results in the number of occurrences of the flag being recorded. For example -ddd or -d -d -d would count as three occurrences. For options or arguments that take a value, this does not affect how many values they can accept. (i.e. only one at a time is allowed)

For example, --opt val1 --opt val2 is allowed, but --opt val1 val2 is not.

##### name

`string`

The unique argument name

##### numberOfValues

`integer` | `null` formatted as `uint`

Specifies how many values are required to satisfy this argument. For example, if you had a `-f &lt;file&gt;` argument where you wanted exactly 3 'files' you would set `number_of_values = 3`, and this argument wouldn't be satisfied unless the user provided 3 and only 3 values.

**NOTE:** Does *not* require `multiple_occurrences = true` to be set. Setting `multiple_occurrences = true` would allow `-f &lt;file&gt; &lt;file&gt; &lt;file&gt; -f &lt;file&gt; &lt;file&gt; &lt;file&gt;` where as *not* setting it would only allow one occurrence of this argument.

**NOTE:** implicitly sets `takes_value = true` and `multiple_values = true`.

##### possibleValues

`string`[] | `null`

Specifies a list of possible values for this argument. At runtime, the CLI verifies that only one of the specified values was used, or fails with an error message.

##### required

`boolean`

Sets whether or not the argument is required by default.

- Required by default means it is required, when no other conflicting rules have been evaluated - Conflicting rules take precedence over being required.

##### requiredIfEq

`string`[] | `null`

Allows specifying that an argument is required conditionally with the signature [arg, value] the requirement will only become valid if the `arg`'s value equals `${value}`.

##### requiredUnlessPresent

`string` | `null`

Sets an arg that override this arg's required setting i.e. this arg will be required unless this other argument is present.

##### requiredUnlessPresentAll

`string`[] | `null`

Sets args that override this arg's required setting i.e. this arg will be required unless all these other arguments are present.

##### requiredUnlessPresentAny

`string`[] | `null`

Sets args that override this arg's required setting i.e. this arg will be required unless at least one of these other arguments are present.

##### requireEquals

`boolean` | `null`

Requires that options use the --option=val syntax i.e. an equals between the option and associated value.

##### requires

`string` | `null`

Tets an argument by name that is required when this one is present i.e. when using this argument, the following argument must be present.

##### requiresAll

`string`[] | `null`

Sts multiple arguments by names that are required when this one is present i.e. when using this argument, the following arguments must be present.

##### requiresIf

`string`[] | `null`

Allows a conditional requirement with the signature [arg, value] the requirement will only become valid if `arg`'s value equals `${value}`.

##### short

`string` | `null` maximum length of `1`, minimum length of `1`

The short version of the argument, without the preceding -.

NOTE: Any leading `-` characters will be stripped, and only the first non-character will be used as the short version.

##### takesValue

`boolean`

Specifies that the argument takes a value at run time.

NOTE: values for arguments may be specified in any of the following methods - Using a space such as -o value or --option value - Using an equals and no space such as -o=value or --option=value - Use a short and no space such as -ovalue

### CliConfig



describes a CLI configuration

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#cliconfig

**Object Properties**:

- afterHelp 
- args 
- beforeHelp 
- description 
- longDescription 
- subcommands 

##### afterHelp

`string` | `null`

Adds additional help information to be displayed in addition to auto-generated help. This information is displayed after the auto-generated help information. This is often used to describe how to use the arguments, or caveats to be noted.

##### args

[`CliArg`](#cliarg)[] | `null`

List of arguments for the command

##### beforeHelp

`string` | `null`

Adds additional help information to be displayed in addition to auto-generated help. This information is displayed before the auto-generated help information. This is often used for header information.

##### description

`string` | `null`

Command description which will be shown on the help information.

##### longDescription

`string` | `null`

Command long description which will be shown on the help information.

##### subcommands

 | `null`

List of subcommands of this command

**Allows additional properties**: [`CliConfig`](#cliconfig)

### ClipboardAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the clipboard APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#clipboardallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 
- readText 
- writeText 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all clipboard APIs.

##### readText

`boolean`

Enables the clipboard's `readText` API.

##### writeText

`boolean`

Enables the clipboard's `writeText` API.

### Csp



**Any of the following**:

- `string` The entire CSP policy in a single text string.
-  An object mapping a directive with its sources values as a list of strings. **Allows additional properties**: [`CspDirectiveSources`](#cspdirectivesources)

A Content-Security-Policy definition. See &lt;https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP&gt;.

### CspDirectiveSources



**Any of the following**:

- `string` An inline list of CSP sources. Same as [`Self::List`], but concatenated with a space separator.
- `string`[] A list of CSP sources. The collection will be concatenated with a space separator for the CSP string.

A Content-Security-Policy directive source list. See &lt;https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/Sources#sources&gt;.

### DebConfig



Configuration for Debian (.deb) bundles.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#debconfig

**Object Properties**:

- depends 
- desktopTemplate 
- files 

##### depends

`string`[] | `null`

The list of deb dependencies your application relies on.

##### desktopTemplate

`string` | `null`

Path to a custom desktop file Handlebars template.

Available variables: `categories`, `comment` (optional), `exec`, `icon` and `name`.

##### files



The files to include on the package.

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

**Default**: `{}`

### DialogAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the dialog APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#dialogallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 
- ask 
- confirm 
- message 
- open 
- save 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all dialog API features.

##### ask

`boolean`

Allows the API to show a dialog window with Yes/No buttons.

##### confirm

`boolean`

Allows the API to show a dialog window with Ok/Cancel buttons.

##### message

`boolean`

Allows the API to show a message dialog window.

##### open

`boolean`

Allows the API to open a dialog window to pick files.

##### save

`boolean`

Allows the API to open a dialog window to pick where to save files.

### DisabledCspModificationKind



**Any of the following**:

- `boolean` If `true`, disables all CSP modification. `false` is the default value and it configures Tauri to control the CSP.
- `string`[] Disables the given list of CSP directives modifications.

The possible values for the `dangerous_disable_asset_csp_modification` config option.

### FsAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the file system APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#fsallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 
- copyFile 
- createDir 
- exists 
- readDir 
- readFile 
- removeDir 
- removeFile 
- renameFile 
- scope 
- writeFile 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all file system API features.

##### copyFile

`boolean`

Copy file from local filesystem.

##### createDir

`boolean`

Create directory from local filesystem.

##### exists

`boolean`

Check if path exists on the local filesystem.

##### readDir

`boolean`

Read directory from local filesystem.

##### readFile

`boolean`

Read file from local filesystem.

##### removeDir

`boolean`

Remove directory from local filesystem.

##### removeFile

`boolean`

Remove file from local filesystem.

##### renameFile

`boolean`

Rename file from local filesystem.

##### scope



[`FsAllowlistScope`](#fsallowlistscope)

The access scope for the filesystem APIs.

**Default**: `[]`

##### writeFile

`boolean`

Write file to local filesystem.

### FsAllowlistScope



**Any of the following**:

- `string`[] A list of paths that are allowed by this scope.
-  A complete scope configuration. **Object Properties**: - allow  - deny  - requireLiteralLeadingDot  ##### allow `string`[] A list of paths that are allowed by this scope. **Default**: `[]` ##### deny `string`[] A list of paths that are not allowed by this scope. This gets precedence over the [`Self::Scope::allow`] list. **Default**: `[]` ##### requireLiteralLeadingDot `boolean` | `null` Whether or not paths that contain components that start with a `.` will require that `.` appears literally in the pattern; `*`, `?`, `**`, or `[...]` will not match. This is useful because such files are conventionally considered hidden on Unix systems and it might be desirable to skip them when listing files.  Defaults to `true` on Unix systems and `false` on Windows

Filesystem scope definition. It is a list of glob patterns that restrict the API access from the webview.

Each pattern can start with a variable that resolves to a system base directory. The variables are: `$AUDIO`, `$CACHE`, `$CONFIG`, `$DATA`, `$LOCALDATA`, `$DESKTOP`, `$DOCUMENT`, `$DOWNLOAD`, `$EXE`, `$FONT`, `$HOME`, `$PICTURE`, `$PUBLIC`, `$RUNTIME`, `$TEMPLATE`, `$VIDEO`, `$RESOURCE`, `$APP`, `$LOG`, `$TEMP`, `$APPCONFIG`, `$APPDATA`, `$APPLOCALDATA`, `$APPCACHE`, `$APPLOG`.

### GlobalShortcutAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the global shortcut APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#globalshortcutallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all global shortcut API features.

### HookCommand



**Any of the following**:

- `string` Run the given script with the default options.
-  Run the given script with custom options. **Object Properties**: - cwd  - script (required) ##### cwd `string` | `null` The current working directory. ##### script `string` The script to execute.

Describes a shell command to be executed when a CLI hook is triggered.

### HttpAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the HTTP APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#httpallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 
- request 
- scope 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all HTTP API features.

##### request

`boolean`

Allows making HTTP requests.

##### scope



[`HttpAllowlistScope`](#httpallowlistscope)

The access scope for the HTTP APIs.

**Default**: `[]`

### HttpAllowlistScope

`string` formatted as `uri`[]

HTTP API scope definition. It is a list of URLs that can be accessed by the webview when using the HTTP APIs. The scoped URL is matched against the request URL using a glob pattern.

Examples: - "https://*": allows all HTTPS urls - "https://*.github.com/tauri-apps/tauri": allows any subdomain of "github.com" with the "tauri-apps/api" path - "https://myapi.service.com/users/*": allows access to any URLs that begins with "https://myapi.service.com/users/"

### MacConfig



Configuration for the macOS bundles.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#macconfig

**Object Properties**:

- entitlements 
- exceptionDomain 
- frameworks 
- license 
- minimumSystemVersion 
- providerShortName 
- signingIdentity 

##### entitlements

`string` | `null`

Path to the entitlements file.

##### exceptionDomain

`string` | `null`

Allows your application to communicate with the outside world. It should be a lowercase, without port and protocol domain name.

##### frameworks

`string`[] | `null`

A list of strings indicating any macOS X frameworks that need to be bundled with the application.

If a name is used, ".framework" must be omitted and it will look for standard install locations. You may also use a path to a specific framework.

##### license

`string` | `null`

The path to the license file to add to the DMG bundle.

##### minimumSystemVersion

`string` | `null`

A version string indicating the minimum macOS X version that the bundled application supports. Defaults to `10.13`.

Setting it to `null` completely removes the `LSMinimumSystemVersion` field on the bundle's `Info.plist` and the `MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET` environment variable.

An empty string is considered an invalid value so the default value is used.

**Default**: `"10.13"`

##### providerShortName

`string` | `null`

Provider short name for notarization.

##### signingIdentity

`string` | `null`

Identity to use for code signing.

### NotificationAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the notification APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#notificationallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all notification API features.

### NsisCompression



**One of the following**:

- `"zlib"` ZLIB uses the deflate algorithm, it is a quick and simple method. With the default compression level it uses about 300 KB of memory.
- `"bzip2"` BZIP2 usually gives better compression ratios than ZLIB, but it is a bit slower and uses more memory. With the default compression level it uses about 4 MB of memory.
- `"lzma"` LZMA (default) is a new compression method that gives very good compression ratios. The decompression speed is high (10-20 MB/s on a 2 GHz CPU), the compression speed is lower. The memory size that will be used for decompression is the dictionary size plus a few KBs, the default is 8 MB.

Compression algorithms used in the NSIS installer.

See &lt;https://nsis.sourceforge.io/Reference/SetCompressor&gt;

### NsisConfig



Configuration for the Installer bundle using NSIS.

**Object Properties**:

- compression 
- customLanguageFiles 
- displayLanguageSelector 
- headerImage 
- installerIcon 
- installMode 
- languages 
- license 
- sidebarImage 
- template 

##### compression



[`NsisCompression`](#nsiscompression) | `null`

Set the compression algorithm used to compress files in the installer.

See &lt;https://nsis.sourceforge.io/Reference/SetCompressor&gt;

##### customLanguageFiles

 | `null`

A key-value pair where the key is the language and the value is the path to a custom `.nsh` file that holds the translated text for tauri's custom messages.

See &lt;https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/dev/tooling/bundler/src/bundle/windows/templates/nsis-languages/English.nsh&gt; for an example `.nsh` file.

**Note**: the key must be a valid NSIS language and it must be added to [`NsisConfig`] languages array,

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

##### displayLanguageSelector

`boolean`

Whether to display a language selector dialog before the installer and uninstaller windows are rendered or not. By default the OS language is selected, with a fallback to the first language in the `languages` array.

##### headerImage

`string` | `null`

The path to a bitmap file to display on the header of installers pages.

The recommended dimensions are 150px x 57px.

##### installerIcon

`string` | `null`

The path to an icon file used as the installer icon.

##### installMode



[`NSISInstallerMode`](#nsisinstallermode)

Whether the installation will be for all users or just the current user.

**Default**: `"currentUser"`

##### languages

`string`[] | `null`

A list of installer languages. By default the OS language is used. If the OS language is not in the list of languages, the first language will be used. To allow the user to select the language, set `display_language_selector` to `true`.

See &lt;https://github.com/kichik/nsis/tree/9465c08046f00ccb6eda985abbdbf52c275c6c4d/Contrib/Language%20files&gt; for the complete list of languages.

##### license

`string` | `null`

The path to the license file to render on the installer.

##### sidebarImage

`string` | `null`

The path to a bitmap file for the Welcome page and the Finish page.

The recommended dimensions are 164px x 314px.

##### template

`string` | `null`

A custom .nsi template to use.

### NSISInstallerMode



**One of the following**:

- `"currentUser"` Default mode for the installer.  Install the app by default in a directory that doesn't require Administrator access.  Installer metadata will be saved under the `HKCU` registry path.
- `"perMachine"` Install the app by default in the `Program Files` folder directory requires Administrator access for the installation.  Installer metadata will be saved under the `HKLM` registry path.
- `"both"` Combines both modes and allows the user to choose at install time whether to install for the current user or per machine. Note that this mode will require Administrator access even if the user wants to install it for the current user only.  Installer metadata will be saved under the `HKLM` or `HKCU` registry path based on the user's choice.

Install Modes for the NSIS installer.

### OsAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the OS APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#osallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all OS API features.

### PackageConfig



The package configuration.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#packageconfig

**Object Properties**:

- productName 
- version 

##### productName

`string` | `null` pattern of `^[^/\:*?"<>|]+$`

App name.

##### version

`string` | `null`

App version. It is a semver version number or a path to a `package.json` file containing the `version` field. If removed the version number from `Cargo.toml` is used.

### PathAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the path APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#pathallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all path API features.

### PatternKind



**One of the following**:

-  Brownfield pattern. **Object Properties**: - use (required) ##### use `"brownfield"`
-  Isolation pattern. Recommended for security purposes. **Object Properties**: - options (required) - use (required) ##### options  **Object Properties**: - dir (required) ###### dir `string` The dir containing the index.html file that contains the secure isolation application. ##### use `"isolation"`

The application pattern.

### PluginConfig



The plugin configs holds a HashMap mapping a plugin name to its configuration object.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#pluginconfig

**Allows additional properties**: `true`

### ProcessAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the process APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#processallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 
- exit 
- relaunch 
- relaunchDangerousAllowSymlinkMacos 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all process APIs.

##### exit

`boolean`

Enables the exit API.

##### relaunch

`boolean`

Enables the relaunch API.

##### relaunchDangerousAllowSymlinkMacos

`boolean`

Dangerous option that allows macOS to relaunch even if the binary contains a symlink.

This is due to macOS having less symlink protection. Highly recommended to not set this flag unless you have a very specific reason too, and understand the implications of it.

### ProtocolAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the custom protocols.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#protocolallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 
- asset 
- assetScope 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all custom protocols.

##### asset

`boolean`

Enables the asset protocol.

##### assetScope



[`FsAllowlistScope`](#fsallowlistscope)

The access scope for the asset protocol.

**Default**: `[]`

### RemoteDomainAccessScope



External command access definition.

**Object Properties**:

- domain (required)
- enableTauriAPI 
- plugins 
- scheme 
- windows (required)

##### domain

`string`

The domain to allow.

##### enableTauriAPI

`boolean`

Enables access to the Tauri API.

##### plugins

`string`[]

The list of plugins that are allowed in this scope. The names should be without the `tauri-plugin-` prefix, for example `"store"` for `tauri-plugin-store`.

**Default**: `[]`

##### scheme

`string` | `null`

The URL scheme to allow. By default, all schemas are allowed.

##### windows

`string`[]

The list of window labels this scope applies to.

### SecurityConfig



Security configuration.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#securityconfig

**Object Properties**:

- csp 
- dangerousDisableAssetCspModification 
- dangerousRemoteDomainIpcAccess 
- dangerousUseHttpScheme 
- devCsp 
- freezePrototype 

##### csp



[`Csp`](#csp) | `null`

The Content Security Policy that will be injected on all HTML files on the built application. If [`dev_csp`](#securityconfig) is not specified, this value is also injected on dev.

This is a really important part of the configuration since it helps you ensure your WebView is secured. See &lt;https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP&gt;.

##### dangerousDisableAssetCspModification



[`DisabledCspModificationKind`](#disabledcspmodificationkind)

Disables the Tauri-injected CSP sources.

At compile time, Tauri parses all the frontend assets and changes the Content-Security-Policy to only allow loading of your own scripts and styles by injecting nonce and hash sources. This stricts your CSP, which may introduce issues when using along with other flexing sources.

This configuration option allows both a boolean and a list of strings as value. A boolean instructs Tauri to disable the injection for all CSP injections, and a list of strings indicates the CSP directives that Tauri cannot inject.

**WARNING:** Only disable this if you know what you are doing and have properly configured the CSP. Your application might be vulnerable to XSS attacks without this Tauri protection.

##### dangerousRemoteDomainIpcAccess

[`RemoteDomainAccessScope`](#remotedomainaccessscope)[]

Allow external domains to send command to Tauri.

By default, external domains do not have access to `window.__TAURI__`, which means they cannot communicate with the commands defined in Rust. This prevents attacks where an externally loaded malicious or compromised sites could start executing commands on the user's device.

This configuration allows a set of external domains to have access to the Tauri commands. When you configure a domain to be allowed to access the IPC, all subpaths are allowed. Subdomains are not allowed.

**WARNING:** Only use this option if you either have internal checks against malicious external sites or you can trust the allowed external sites. You application might be vulnerable to dangerous Tauri command related attacks otherwise.

**Default**: `[]`

##### dangerousUseHttpScheme

`boolean`

Sets whether the custom protocols should use `http://&lt;scheme&gt;.localhost` instead of the default `https://&lt;scheme&gt;.localhost` on Windows.

**WARNING:** Using a `http` scheme will allow mixed content when trying to fetch `http` endpoints and is therefore less secure but will match the behavior of the `&lt;scheme&gt;://localhost` protocols used on macOS and Linux.

##### devCsp



[`Csp`](#csp) | `null`

The Content Security Policy that will be injected on all HTML files on development.

This is a really important part of the configuration since it helps you ensure your WebView is secured. See &lt;https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP&gt;.

##### freezePrototype

`boolean`

Freeze the `Object.prototype` when using the custom protocol.

### ShellAllowedArg



**Any of the following**:

- `string` A non-configurable argument that is passed to the command in the order it was specified.
-  A variable that is set while calling the command from the webview API. **Object Properties**: - validator (required) ##### validator `string` [regex] validator to require passed values to conform to an expected input.  This will require the argument value passed to this variable to match the `validator` regex before it will be executed.  [regex]: https://docs.rs/regex/latest/regex/#syntax

A command argument allowed to be executed by the webview API.

### ShellAllowedArgs



**Any of the following**:

- `boolean` Use a simple boolean to allow all or disable all arguments to this command configuration.
- [`ShellAllowedArg`](#shellallowedarg)[] A specific set of [`ShellAllowedArg`] that are valid to call for the command configuration.

A set of command arguments allowed to be executed by the webview API.

A value of `true` will allow any arguments to be passed to the command. `false` will disable all arguments. A list of [`ShellAllowedArg`] will set those arguments as the only valid arguments to be passed to the attached command configuration.

### ShellAllowedCommand



A command allowed to be executed by the webview API.

**Object Properties**:

- args 
- cmd 
- name (required)
- sidecar 

##### args



[`ShellAllowedArgs`](#shellallowedargs)

The allowed arguments for the command execution.

##### cmd

`string`

The command name. It can start with a variable that resolves to a system base directory. The variables are: `$AUDIO`, `$CACHE`, `$CONFIG`, `$DATA`, `$LOCALDATA`, `$DESKTOP`, `$DOCUMENT`, `$DOWNLOAD`, `$EXE`, `$FONT`, `$HOME`, `$PICTURE`, `$PUBLIC`, `$RUNTIME`, `$TEMPLATE`, `$VIDEO`, `$RESOURCE`, `$APP`, `$LOG`, `$TEMP`, `$APPCONFIG`, `$APPDATA`, `$APPLOCALDATA`, `$APPCACHE`, `$APPLOG`.

##### name

`string`

The name for this allowed shell command configuration.

This name will be used inside of the webview API to call this command along with any specified arguments.

##### sidecar

`boolean`

If this command is a sidecar command.

### ShellAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the shell APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#shellallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 
- execute 
- open 
- scope 
- sidecar 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all shell API features.

##### execute

`boolean`

Enable binary execution.

##### open



[`ShellAllowlistOpen`](#shellallowlistopen)

Open URL with the user's default application.

##### scope



[`ShellAllowlistScope`](#shellallowlistscope)

Access scope for the binary execution APIs. Sidecars are automatically enabled.

**Default**: `[]`

##### sidecar

`boolean`

Enable sidecar execution, allowing the JavaScript layer to spawn a sidecar command, an executable that is shipped with the application. For more information see &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/guides/building/sidecar&gt;.

### ShellAllowlistOpen



**Any of the following**:

- `boolean` If the shell open API should be enabled.  If enabled, the default validation regex (`^((mailto:\w+)|(tel:\w+)|(https?://\w+)).+`) is used.
- `string` Enable the shell open API, with a custom regex that the opened path must match against.  If using a custom regex to support a non-http(s) schema, care should be used to prevent values that allow flag-like strings to pass validation. e.g. `--enable-debugging`, `-i`, `/R`.

Defines the `shell &gt; open` api scope.

### ShellAllowlistScope

[`ShellAllowedCommand`](#shellallowedcommand)[]

Shell scope definition. It is a list of command names and associated CLI arguments that restrict the API access from the webview.

### SystemTrayConfig



Configuration for application system tray icon.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#systemtrayconfig

**Object Properties**:

- iconAsTemplate 
- iconPath (required)
- menuOnLeftClick 
- title 

##### iconAsTemplate

`boolean`

A Boolean value that determines whether the image represents a [template](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsimage/1520017-template?language=objc) image on macOS.

##### iconPath

`string`

Path to the default icon to use on the system tray.

##### menuOnLeftClick

`boolean`

A Boolean value that determines whether the menu should appear when the tray icon receives a left click on macOS.

**Default**: `true`

##### title

`string` | `null`

Title for MacOS tray

### TauriConfig



The Tauri configuration object.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#tauriconfig

**Object Properties**:

- allowlist 
- bundle 
- cli 
- macOSPrivateApi 
- pattern 
- security 
- systemTray 
- updater 
- windows 

##### allowlist



[`AllowlistConfig`](#allowlistconfig)

The allowlist configuration.


```json title='Default'
{
	"all": false,
	"app": {
		"all": false,
		"hide": false,
		"show": false
	},
	"clipboard": {
		"all": false,
		"readText": false,
		"writeText": false
	},
	"dialog": {
		"all": false,
		"ask": false,
		"confirm": false,
		"message": false,
		"open": false,
		"save": false
	},
	"fs": {
		"all": false,
		"copyFile": false,
		"createDir": false,
		"exists": false,
		"readDir": false,
		"readFile": false,
		"removeDir": false,
		"removeFile": false,
		"renameFile": false,
		"scope": [],
		"writeFile": false
	},
	"globalShortcut": {
		"all": false
	},
	"http": {
		"all": false,
		"request": false,
		"scope": []
	},
	"notification": {
		"all": false
	},
	"os": {
		"all": false
	},
	"path": {
		"all": false
	},
	"process": {
		"all": false,
		"exit": false,
		"relaunch": false,
		"relaunchDangerousAllowSymlinkMacos": false
	},
	"protocol": {
		"all": false,
		"asset": false,
		"assetScope": []
	},
	"shell": {
		"all": false,
		"execute": false,
		"open": false,
		"scope": [],
		"sidecar": false
	},
	"window": {
		"all": false,
		"center": false,
		"close": false,
		"create": false,
		"hide": false,
		"maximize": false,
		"minimize": false,
		"print": false,
		"requestUserAttention": false,
		"setAlwaysOnTop": false,
		"setClosable": false,
		"setContentProtected": false,
		"setCursorGrab": false,
		"setCursorIcon": false,
		"setCursorPosition": false,
		"setCursorVisible": false,
		"setDecorations": false,
		"setFocus": false,
		"setFullscreen": false,
		"setIcon": false,
		"setIgnoreCursorEvents": false,
		"setMaxSize": false,
		"setMaximizable": false,
		"setMinSize": false,
		"setMinimizable": false,
		"setPosition": false,
		"setResizable": false,
		"setSize": false,
		"setSkipTaskbar": false,
		"setTitle": false,
		"show": false,
		"startDragging": false,
		"unmaximize": false,
		"unminimize": false
	}
}
```


##### bundle



[`BundleConfig`](#bundleconfig)

The bundler configuration.


```json title='Default'
{
	"active": false,
	"appimage": {
		"bundleMediaFramework": false
	},
	"deb": {
		"files": {}
	},
	"icon": [],
	"identifier": "",
	"macOS": {
		"minimumSystemVersion": "10.13"
	},
	"targets": "all",
	"windows": {
		"allowDowngrades": true,
		"certificateThumbprint": null,
		"digestAlgorithm": null,
		"nsis": null,
		"timestampUrl": null,
		"tsp": false,
		"webviewFixedRuntimePath": null,
		"webviewInstallMode": {
			"silent": true,
			"type": "downloadBootstrapper"
		},
		"wix": null
	}
}
```


##### cli



[`CliConfig`](#cliconfig) | `null`

The CLI configuration.

##### macOSPrivateApi

`boolean`

MacOS private API configuration. Enables the transparent background API and sets the `fullScreenEnabled` preference to `true`.

##### pattern



[`PatternKind`](#patternkind)

The pattern to use.


```json title='Default'
{
	"use": "brownfield"
}
```


##### security



[`SecurityConfig`](#securityconfig)

Security configuration.


```json title='Default'
{
	"dangerousDisableAssetCspModification": false,
	"dangerousRemoteDomainIpcAccess": [],
	"dangerousUseHttpScheme": false,
	"freezePrototype": false
}
```


##### systemTray



[`SystemTrayConfig`](#systemtrayconfig) | `null`

Configuration for app system tray.

##### updater



[`UpdaterConfig`](#updaterconfig)

The updater configuration.


```json title='Default'
{
	"active": false,
	"dialog": true,
	"pubkey": "",
	"windows": {
		"installMode": "passive",
		"installerArgs": []
	}
}
```


##### windows

[`WindowConfig`](#windowconfig)[]

The windows configuration.

**Default**: `[]`

### Theme



**One of the following**:

- `"Light"` Light theme.
- `"Dark"` Dark theme.

System theme.

### TitleBarStyle



**One of the following**:

- `"Visible"` A normal title bar.
- `"Transparent"` Makes the title bar transparent, so the window background color is shown instead.  Useful if you don't need to have actual HTML under the title bar. This lets you avoid the caveats of using `TitleBarStyle::Overlay`. Will be more useful when Tauri lets you set a custom window background color.
- `"Overlay"` Shows the title bar as a transparent overlay over the window's content.  Keep in mind: - The height of the title bar is different on different OS versions, which can lead to window the controls and title not being where you don't expect. - You need to define a custom drag region to make your window draggable, however due to a limitation you can't drag the window when it's not in focus &lt;https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/4316&gt;. - The color of the window title depends on the system theme.

How the window title bar should be displayed on macOS.

### UpdaterConfig



The Updater configuration object.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#updaterconfig

**Object Properties**:

- active 
- dialog 
- endpoints 
- pubkey 
- windows 

##### active

`boolean`

Whether the updater is active or not.

##### dialog

`boolean`

Display built-in dialog or use event system if disabled.

**Default**: `true`

##### endpoints

[`UpdaterEndpoint`](#updaterendpoint)[] | `null`

The updater endpoints. TLS is enforced on production.

The updater URL can contain the following variables: - {{current_version}}: The version of the app that is requesting the update - {{target}}: The operating system name (one of `linux`, `windows` or `darwin`). - {{arch}}: The architecture of the machine (one of `x86_64`, `i686`, `aarch64` or `armv7`).

###### Examples - "https://my.cdn.com/latest.json": a raw JSON endpoint that returns the latest version and download links for each platform. - "https://updates.app.dev/{{target}}?version={{current_version}}&arch={{arch}}": a dedicated API with positional and query string arguments.

##### pubkey

`string`

Signature public key.

##### windows



[`UpdaterWindowsConfig`](#updaterwindowsconfig)

The Windows configuration for the updater.


```json title='Default'
{
	"installMode": "passive",
	"installerArgs": []
}
```


### UpdaterEndpoint

`string` formatted as `uri`

A URL to an updater server.

The URL must use the `https` scheme on production.

### UpdaterWindowsConfig



The updater configuration for Windows.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#updaterwindowsconfig

**Object Properties**:

- installerArgs 
- installMode 

##### installerArgs

`string`[]

Additional arguments given to the NSIS or WiX installer.

**Default**: `[]`

##### installMode



[`WindowsUpdateInstallMode`](#windowsupdateinstallmode)

The installation mode for the update on Windows. Defaults to `passive`.

**Default**: `"passive"`

### WebviewInstallMode



**One of the following**:

-  Do not install the Webview2 as part of the Windows Installer. **Object Properties**: - type (required) ##### type `"skip"`
-  Download the bootstrapper and run it. Requires an internet connection. Results in a smaller installer size, but is not recommended on Windows 7. **Object Properties**: - silent  - type (required) ##### silent `boolean` Instructs the installer to run the bootstrapper in silent mode. Defaults to `true`. **Default**: `true` ##### type `"downloadBootstrapper"`
-  Embed the bootstrapper and run it. Requires an internet connection. Increases the installer size by around 1.8MB, but offers better support on Windows 7. **Object Properties**: - silent  - type (required) ##### silent `boolean` Instructs the installer to run the bootstrapper in silent mode. Defaults to `true`. **Default**: `true` ##### type `"embedBootstrapper"`
-  Embed the offline installer and run it. Does not require an internet connection. Increases the installer size by around 127MB. **Object Properties**: - silent  - type (required) ##### silent `boolean` Instructs the installer to run the installer in silent mode. Defaults to `true`. **Default**: `true` ##### type `"offlineInstaller"`
-  Embed a fixed webview2 version and use it at runtime. Increases the installer size by around 180MB. **Object Properties**: - path (required) - type (required) ##### path `string` The path to the fixed runtime to use.  The fixed version can be downloaded [on the official website](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/#download-section). The `.cab` file must be extracted to a folder and this folder path must be defined on this field. ##### type `"fixedRuntime"`

Install modes for the Webview2 runtime. Note that for the updater bundle [`Self::DownloadBootstrapper`] is used.

For more information see &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/guides/building/windows&gt;.

### WindowAllowlistConfig



Allowlist for the window APIs.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#windowallowlistconfig

**Object Properties**:

- all 
- center 
- close 
- create 
- hide 
- maximize 
- minimize 
- print 
- requestUserAttention 
- setAlwaysOnTop 
- setClosable 
- setContentProtected 
- setCursorGrab 
- setCursorIcon 
- setCursorPosition 
- setCursorVisible 
- setDecorations 
- setFocus 
- setFullscreen 
- setIcon 
- setIgnoreCursorEvents 
- setMaximizable 
- setMaxSize 
- setMinimizable 
- setMinSize 
- setPosition 
- setResizable 
- setSize 
- setSkipTaskbar 
- setTitle 
- show 
- startDragging 
- unmaximize 
- unminimize 

##### all

`boolean`

Use this flag to enable all window API features.

##### center

`boolean`

Allows centering the window.

##### close

`boolean`

Allows closing the window.

##### create

`boolean`

Allows dynamic window creation.

##### hide

`boolean`

Allows hiding the window.

##### maximize

`boolean`

Allows maximizing the window.

##### minimize

`boolean`

Allows minimizing the window.

##### print

`boolean`

Allows opening the system dialog to print the window content.

##### requestUserAttention

`boolean`

Allows requesting user attention on the window.

##### setAlwaysOnTop

`boolean`

Allows setting the always_on_top flag of the window.

##### setClosable

`boolean`

Allows setting whether the window's native close button is enabled or not.

##### setContentProtected

`boolean`

Allows preventing the window contents from being captured by other apps.

##### setCursorGrab

`boolean`

Allows grabbing the cursor.

##### setCursorIcon

`boolean`

Allows changing the cursor icon.

##### setCursorPosition

`boolean`

Allows setting the cursor position.

##### setCursorVisible

`boolean`

Allows setting the cursor visibility.

##### setDecorations

`boolean`

Allows setting the decorations flag of the window.

##### setFocus

`boolean`

Allows focusing the window.

##### setFullscreen

`boolean`

Allows setting the fullscreen flag of the window.

##### setIcon

`boolean`

Allows changing the window icon.

##### setIgnoreCursorEvents

`boolean`

Allows ignoring cursor events.

##### setMaximizable

`boolean`

Allows setting whether the window's native maximize button is enabled or not.

##### setMaxSize

`boolean`

Allows setting the window maximum size.

##### setMinimizable

`boolean`

Allows setting whether the window's native minimize button is enabled or not.

##### setMinSize

`boolean`

Allows setting the window minimum size.

##### setPosition

`boolean`

Allows changing the position of the window.

##### setResizable

`boolean`

Allows setting the resizable flag of the window.

##### setSize

`boolean`

Allows setting the window size.

##### setSkipTaskbar

`boolean`

Allows setting the skip_taskbar flag of the window.

##### setTitle

`boolean`

Allows changing the window title.

##### show

`boolean`

Allows showing the window.

##### startDragging

`boolean`

Allows start dragging on the window.

##### unmaximize

`boolean`

Allows unmaximizing the window.

##### unminimize

`boolean`

Allows unminimizing the window.

### WindowConfig



The window configuration object.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#windowconfig

**Object Properties**:

- acceptFirstMouse 
- additionalBrowserArgs 
- alwaysOnTop 
- center 
- closable 
- contentProtected 
- decorations 
- fileDropEnabled 
- focus 
- fullscreen 
- height 
- hiddenTitle 
- label 
- maxHeight 
- maximizable 
- maximized 
- maxWidth 
- minHeight 
- minimizable 
- minWidth 
- resizable 
- skipTaskbar 
- tabbingIdentifier 
- theme 
- title 
- titleBarStyle 
- transparent 
- url 
- userAgent 
- visible 
- width 
- x 
- y 

##### acceptFirstMouse

`boolean`

Whether clicking an inactive window also clicks through to the webview on macOS.

##### additionalBrowserArgs

`string` | `null`

Defines additional browser arguments on Windows. By default wry passes `--disable-features=msWebOOUI,msPdfOOUI,msSmartScreenProtection` so if you use this method, you also need to disable these components by yourself if you want.

##### alwaysOnTop

`boolean`

Whether the window should always be on top of other windows.

##### center

`boolean`

Whether or not the window starts centered or not.

##### closable

`boolean`

Whether the window's native close button is enabled or not.

###### Platform-specific

- **Linux:** "GTK+ will do its best to convince the window manager not to show a close button. Depending on the system, this function may not have any effect when called on a window that is already visible" - **iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### contentProtected

`boolean`

Prevents the window contents from being captured by other apps.

##### decorations

`boolean`

Whether the window should have borders and bars.

**Default**: `true`

##### fileDropEnabled

`boolean`

Whether the file drop is enabled or not on the webview. By default it is enabled.

Disabling it is required to use drag and drop on the frontend on Windows.

**Default**: `true`

##### focus

`boolean`

Whether the window will be initially focused or not.

**Default**: `true`

##### fullscreen

`boolean`

Whether the window starts as fullscreen or not.

##### height

`number` formatted as `double`

The window height.

**Default**: `600`

##### hiddenTitle

`boolean`

If `true`, sets the window title to be hidden on macOS.

##### label

`string`

The window identifier. It must be alphanumeric.

**Default**: `"main"`

##### maxHeight

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The max window height.

##### maximizable

`boolean`

Whether the window's native maximize button is enabled or not. If resizable is set to false, this setting is ignored.

###### Platform-specific

- **macOS:** Disables the "zoom" button in the window titlebar, which is also used to enter fullscreen mode. - **Linux / iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### maximized

`boolean`

Whether the window is maximized or not.

##### maxWidth

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The max window width.

##### minHeight

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The min window height.

##### minimizable

`boolean`

Whether the window's native minimize button is enabled or not.

###### Platform-specific

- **Linux / iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### minWidth

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The min window width.

##### resizable

`boolean`

Whether the window is resizable or not. When resizable is set to false, native window's maximize button is automatically disabled.

**Default**: `true`

##### skipTaskbar

`boolean`

If `true`, hides the window icon from the taskbar on Windows and Linux.

##### tabbingIdentifier

`string` | `null`

Defines the window [tabbing identifier] for macOS.

Windows with matching tabbing identifiers will be grouped together. If the tabbing identifier is not set, automatic tabbing will be disabled.

[tabbing identifier]: &lt;https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nswindow/1644704-tabbingidentifier&gt;

##### theme



[`Theme`](#theme) | `null`

The initial window theme. Defaults to the system theme. Only implemented on Windows and macOS 10.14+.

##### title

`string`

The window title.

**Default**: `"Tauri App"`

##### titleBarStyle



[`TitleBarStyle`](#titlebarstyle)

The style of the macOS title bar.

**Default**: `"Visible"`

##### transparent

`boolean`

Whether the window is transparent or not.

Note that on `macOS` this requires the `macos-private-api` feature flag, enabled under `tauri &gt; macOSPrivateApi`. WARNING: Using private APIs on `macOS` prevents your application from being accepted to the `App Store`.

##### url



[`WindowUrl`](#windowurl)

The window webview URL.

**Default**: `"index.html"`

##### userAgent

`string` | `null`

The user agent for the webview

##### visible

`boolean`

Whether the window is visible or not.

**Default**: `true`

##### width

`number` formatted as `double`

The window width.

**Default**: `800`

##### x

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The horizontal position of the window's top left corner

##### y

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The vertical position of the window's top left corner

### WindowsConfig



Windows bundler configuration.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#windowsconfig

**Object Properties**:

- allowDowngrades 
- certificateThumbprint 
- digestAlgorithm 
- nsis 
- timestampUrl 
- tsp 
- webviewFixedRuntimePath 
- webviewInstallMode 
- wix 

##### allowDowngrades

`boolean`

Validates a second app installation, blocking the user from installing an older version if set to `false`.

For instance, if `1.2.1` is installed, the user won't be able to install app version `1.2.0` or `1.1.5`.

The default value of this flag is `true`.

**Default**: `true`

##### certificateThumbprint

`string` | `null`

Specifies the SHA1 hash of the signing certificate.

##### digestAlgorithm

`string` | `null`

Specifies the file digest algorithm to use for creating file signatures. Required for code signing. SHA-256 is recommended.

##### nsis



[`NsisConfig`](#nsisconfig) | `null`

Configuration for the installer generated with NSIS.

##### timestampUrl

`string` | `null`

Server to use during timestamping.

##### tsp

`boolean`

Whether to use Time-Stamp Protocol (TSP, a.k.a. RFC 3161) for the timestamp server. Your code signing provider may use a TSP timestamp server, like e.g. SSL.com does. If so, enable TSP by setting to true.

##### webviewFixedRuntimePath

`string` | `null`

Path to the webview fixed runtime to use. Overwrites [`Self::webview_install_mode`] if set.

Will be removed in v2, prefer the [`Self::webview_install_mode`] option.

The fixed version can be downloaded [on the official website](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/#download-section). The `.cab` file must be extracted to a folder and this folder path must be defined on this field.

##### webviewInstallMode



[`WebviewInstallMode`](#webviewinstallmode)

The installation mode for the Webview2 runtime.


```json title='Default'
{
	"silent": true,
	"type": "downloadBootstrapper"
}
```


##### wix



[`WixConfig`](#wixconfig) | `null`

Configuration for the MSI generated with WiX.

### WindowsUpdateInstallMode



**One of the following**:

- `"basicUi"` Specifies there's a basic UI during the installation process, including a final dialog box at the end.
- `"quiet"` The quiet mode means there's no user interaction required. Requires admin privileges if the installer does.
- `"passive"` Specifies unattended mode, which means the installation only shows a progress bar.

Install modes for the Windows update.

### WindowUrl



**Any of the following**:

- `string` formatted as `uri` An external URL.
- `string` The path portion of an app URL. For instance, to load `tauri://localhost/users/john`, you can simply provide `users/john` in this configuration.

An URL to open on a Tauri webview window.

### WixConfig



Configuration for the MSI bundle using WiX.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#wixconfig

**Object Properties**:

- bannerPath 
- componentGroupRefs 
- componentRefs 
- dialogImagePath 
- enableElevatedUpdateTask 
- featureGroupRefs 
- featureRefs 
- fragmentPaths 
- language 
- license 
- mergeRefs 
- skipWebviewInstall 
- template 

##### bannerPath

`string` | `null`

Path to a bitmap file to use as the installation user interface banner. This bitmap will appear at the top of all but the first page of the installer.

The required dimensions are 493px × 58px.

##### componentGroupRefs

`string`[]

The ComponentGroup element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### componentRefs

`string`[]

The Component element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### dialogImagePath

`string` | `null`

Path to a bitmap file to use on the installation user interface dialogs. It is used on the welcome and completion dialogs. The required dimensions are 493px × 312px.

##### enableElevatedUpdateTask

`boolean`

Create an elevated update task within Windows Task Scheduler.

##### featureGroupRefs

`string`[]

The FeatureGroup element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### featureRefs

`string`[]

The Feature element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### fragmentPaths

`string`[]

A list of paths to .wxs files with WiX fragments to use.

**Default**: `[]`

##### language



[`WixLanguage`](#wixlanguage)

The installer languages to build. See &lt;https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/msi/localizing-the-error-and-actiontext-tables&gt;.

**Default**: `"en-US"`

##### license

`string` | `null`

The path to the license file to render on the installer.

Must be an RTF file, so if a different extension is provided, we convert it to the RTF format.

##### mergeRefs

`string`[]

The Merge element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### skipWebviewInstall

`boolean`

Disables the Webview2 runtime installation after app install.

Will be removed in v2, prefer the [`WindowsConfig::webview_install_mode`] option.

##### template

`string` | `null`

A custom .wxs template to use.

### WixLanguage



**Any of the following**:

- `string` A single language to build, without configuration.
- `string`[] A list of languages to build, without configuration.
-  A map of languages and its configuration. **Allows additional properties**: [`WixLanguageConfig`](#wixlanguageconfig)

The languages to build using WiX.

### WixLanguageConfig



Configuration for a target language for the WiX build.

See more: https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#wixlanguageconfig

**Object Properties**:

- localePath 

##### localePath

`string` | `null`

The path to a locale (`.wxl`) file. See &lt;https://wixtoolset.org/documentation/manual/v3/howtos/ui_and_localization/build_a_localized_version.html&gt;.