---
# NOTE: This file is auto-generated in packages/config-generator/build.ts
# For corrections please edit https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/dev/core/tauri-utils/src/config.rs directly

title: Configuration
sidebar:
  order: 1
---



The Tauri configuration object. It is read from a file where you can define your frontend assets, configure the bundler and define a tray icon.

The configuration file is generated by the [`tauri init`](https://tauri.app/v1/api/cli#init) command that lives in your Tauri application source directory (src-tauri).

Once generated, you may modify it at will to customize your Tauri application.

### File Formats

By default, the configuration is defined as a JSON file named `tauri.conf.json`.

Tauri also supports JSON5 and TOML files via the `config-json5` and `config-toml` Cargo features, respectively. The JSON5 file name must be either `tauri.conf.json` or `tauri.conf.json5`. The TOML file name is `Tauri.toml`.

### Platform-Specific Configuration

In addition to the default configuration file, Tauri can read a platform-specific configuration from `tauri.linux.conf.json`, `tauri.windows.conf.json`, `tauri.macos.conf.json`, `tauri.android.conf.json` and `tauri.ios.conf.json` (or `Tauri.linux.toml`, `Tauri.windows.toml`, `Tauri.macos.toml`, `Tauri.android.toml` and `Tauri.ios.toml` if the `Tauri.toml` format is used), which gets merged with the main configuration object.

### Configuration Structure

The configuration is composed of the following objects:

- [`app`](#appconfig): The Tauri configuration - [`build`](#buildconfig): The build configuration - [`bundle`](#bundleconfig): The bundle configurations - [`plugins`](#pluginconfig): The plugins configuration

```json title="Example tauri.config.json file" { "productName": "tauri-app", "version": "0.1.0" "build": { "beforeBuildCommand": "", "beforeDevCommand": "", "devUrl": "../dist", "frontendDist": "../dist" }, "app": { "security": { "csp": null }, "windows": [ { "fullscreen": false, "height": 600, "resizable": true, "title": "Tauri App", "width": 800 } ] }, "bundle": {}, "plugins": {} } ```

**Object Properties**:

- app 
- build 
- bundle 
- identifier 
- plugins 
- productName 
- version 

### app



[`AppConfig`](#appconfig)

The App configuration.


```json title='Default'
{
	"macOSPrivateApi": false,
	"security": {
		"assetProtocol": {
			"enable": false,
			"scope": []
		},
		"dangerousDisableAssetCspModification": false,
		"freezePrototype": false,
		"pattern": {
			"use": "brownfield"
		}
	},
	"windows": [],
	"withGlobalTauri": false
}
```


### build



[`BuildConfig`](#buildconfig)

The build configuration.

**Default**: `{}`

### bundle



[`BundleConfig`](#bundleconfig)

The bundler configuration.


```json title='Default'
{
	"active": false,
	"android": {
		"minSdkVersion": 24
	},
	"iOS": {},
	"icon": [],
	"linux": {
		"appimage": {
			"bundleMediaFramework": false,
			"files": {}
		},
		"deb": {
			"files": {}
		},
		"rpm": {
			"epoch": 0,
			"files": {},
			"release": "1"
		}
	},
	"macOS": {
		"dmg": {
			"appPosition": {
				"x": 180,
				"y": 170
			},
			"applicationFolderPosition": {
				"x": 480,
				"y": 170
			},
			"windowSize": {
				"height": 400,
				"width": 660
			}
		},
		"files": {},
		"minimumSystemVersion": "10.13"
	},
	"targets": "all",
	"windows": {
		"allowDowngrades": true,
		"certificateThumbprint": null,
		"digestAlgorithm": null,
		"nsis": null,
		"timestampUrl": null,
		"tsp": false,
		"webviewFixedRuntimePath": null,
		"webviewInstallMode": {
			"silent": true,
			"type": "downloadBootstrapper"
		},
		"wix": null
	}
}
```


### identifier

`string`

The application identifier in reverse domain name notation (e.g. `com.tauri.example`). This string must be unique across applications since it is used in system configurations like the bundle ID and path to the webview data directory. This string must contain only alphanumeric characters (A–Z, a–z, and 0–9), hyphens (-), and periods (.).

### plugins



[`PluginConfig`](#pluginconfig)

The plugins config.

**Default**: `{}`

### productName

`string` | `null` pattern of `^[^/\:*?"<>|]+$`

App name.

### version

`string` | `null`

App version. It is a semver version number or a path to a `package.json` file containing the `version` field. If removed the version number from `Cargo.toml` is used.

## Definitions

### AndroidConfig



General configuration for the iOS target.

**Object Properties**:

- minSdkVersion 

##### minSdkVersion

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

The minimum API level required for the application to run. The Android system will prevent the user from installing the application if the system's API level is lower than the value specified.

**Default**: `24`

### AppConfig



The App configuration object.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#appconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- macOSPrivateApi 
- security 
- trayIcon 
- windows 
- withGlobalTauri 

##### macOSPrivateApi

`boolean`

MacOS private API configuration. Enables the transparent background API and sets the `fullScreenEnabled` preference to `true`.

##### security



[`SecurityConfig`](#securityconfig)

Security configuration.


```json title='Default'
{
	"assetProtocol": {
		"enable": false,
		"scope": []
	},
	"dangerousDisableAssetCspModification": false,
	"freezePrototype": false,
	"pattern": {
		"use": "brownfield"
	}
}
```


##### trayIcon



[`TrayIconConfig`](#trayiconconfig) | `null`

Configuration for app tray icon.

##### windows

[`WindowConfig`](#windowconfig)[]

The windows configuration.

**Default**: `[]`

##### withGlobalTauri

`boolean`

Whether we should inject the Tauri API on `window.__TAURI__` or not.

### AppImageConfig



Configuration for AppImage bundles.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#appimageconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- bundleMediaFramework 
- files 

##### bundleMediaFramework

`boolean`

Include additional gstreamer dependencies needed for audio and video playback. This increases the bundle size by ~15-35MB depending on your build system.

##### files



The files to include in the Appimage Binary.

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

**Default**: `{}`

### AssetProtocolConfig



Config for the asset custom protocol.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#assetprotocolconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- enable 
- scope 

##### enable

`boolean`

Enables the asset protocol.

##### scope



[`FsScope`](#fsscope)

The access scope for the asset protocol.

**Default**: `[]`

### AssociationExt

`string`

An extension for a [`FileAssociation`].

A leading `.` is automatically stripped.

### BeforeDevCommand



**Any of the following**:

- `string` Run the given script with the default options.
-  Run the given script with custom options. **Object Properties**: - cwd  - script (required) - wait  ##### cwd `string` | `null` The current working directory. ##### script `string` The script to execute. ##### wait `boolean` Whether `tauri dev` should wait for the command to finish or not. Defaults to `false`.

Describes the shell command to run before `tauri dev`.

### BuildConfig



The Build configuration object.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#buildconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- beforeBuildCommand 
- beforeBundleCommand 
- beforeDevCommand 
- devUrl 
- features 
- frontendDist 
- runner 

##### beforeBuildCommand



[`HookCommand`](#hookcommand) | `null`

A shell command to run before `tauri build` kicks in.

The TAURI_ENV_PLATFORM, TAURI_ENV_ARCH, TAURI_ENV_FAMILY, TAURI_ENV_PLATFORM_VERSION, TAURI_ENV_PLATFORM_TYPE and TAURI_ENV_DEBUG environment variables are set if you perform conditional compilation.

##### beforeBundleCommand



[`HookCommand`](#hookcommand) | `null`

A shell command to run before the bundling phase in `tauri build` kicks in.

The TAURI_ENV_PLATFORM, TAURI_ENV_ARCH, TAURI_ENV_FAMILY, TAURI_ENV_PLATFORM_VERSION, TAURI_ENV_PLATFORM_TYPE and TAURI_ENV_DEBUG environment variables are set if you perform conditional compilation.

##### beforeDevCommand



[`BeforeDevCommand`](#beforedevcommand) | `null`

A shell command to run before `tauri dev` kicks in.

The TAURI_ENV_PLATFORM, TAURI_ENV_ARCH, TAURI_ENV_FAMILY, TAURI_ENV_PLATFORM_VERSION, TAURI_ENV_PLATFORM_TYPE and TAURI_ENV_DEBUG environment variables are set if you perform conditional compilation.

##### devUrl

`string` | `null` formatted as `uri`

The URL to load in development.

This is usually an URL to a dev server, which serves your application assets with hot-reload and HMR. Most modern JavaScript bundlers like [vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/) provides a way to start a dev server by default.

If you don't have a dev server or don't want to use one, ignore this option and use [`frontendDist`](BuildConfig::frontend_dist) and point to a web assets directory, and Tauri CLI will run its built-in dev server and provide a simple hot-reload experience.

##### features

`string`[] | `null`

Features passed to `cargo` commands.

##### frontendDist



[`FrontendDist`](#frontenddist) | `null`

The path to the application assets (usually the `dist` folder of your javascript bundler) or a URL that could be either a custom protocol registered in the tauri app (for example: `myprotocol://`) or a remote URL (for example: `https://site.com/app`).

When a path relative to the configuration file is provided, it is read recursively and all files are embedded in the application binary. Tauri then looks for an `index.html` and serves it as the default entry point for your application.

You can also provide a list of paths to be embedded, which allows granular control over what files are added to the binary. In this case, all files are added to the root and you must reference it that way in your HTML files.

When a URL is provided, the application won't have bundled assets and the application will load that URL by default.

##### runner

`string` | `null`

The binary used to build and run the application.

### BundleConfig



Configuration for tauri-bundler.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#bundleconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- active 
- android 
- category 
- copyright 
- externalBin 
- fileAssociations 
- icon 
- iOS 
- license 
- licenseFile 
- linux 
- longDescription 
- macOS 
- publisher 
- resources 
- shortDescription 
- targets 
- windows 

##### active

`boolean`

Whether Tauri should bundle your application or just output the executable.

##### android



[`AndroidConfig`](#androidconfig)

Android configuration.


```json title='Default'
{
	"minSdkVersion": 24
}
```


##### category

`string` | `null`

The application kind.

Should be one of the following: Business, DeveloperTool, Education, Entertainment, Finance, Game, ActionGame, AdventureGame, ArcadeGame, BoardGame, CardGame, CasinoGame, DiceGame, EducationalGame, FamilyGame, KidsGame, MusicGame, PuzzleGame, RacingGame, RolePlayingGame, SimulationGame, SportsGame, StrategyGame, TriviaGame, WordGame, GraphicsAndDesign, HealthcareAndFitness, Lifestyle, Medical, Music, News, Photography, Productivity, Reference, SocialNetworking, Sports, Travel, Utility, Video, Weather.

##### copyright

`string` | `null`

A copyright string associated with your application.

##### externalBin

`string`[] | `null`

A list of—either absolute or relative—paths to binaries to embed with your application.

Note that Tauri will look for system-specific binaries following the pattern "binary-name{-target-triple}{.system-extension}".

E.g. for the external binary "my-binary", Tauri looks for:

- "my-binary-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.exe" for Windows - "my-binary-x86_64-apple-darwin" for macOS - "my-binary-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu" for Linux

so don't forget to provide binaries for all targeted platforms.

##### fileAssociations

[`FileAssociation`](#fileassociation)[] | `null`

File associations to application.

##### icon

`string`[]

The app's icons

**Default**: `[]`

##### iOS



[`IosConfig`](#iosconfig)

iOS configuration.

**Default**: `{}`

##### license

`string` | `null`

The package's license identifier to be included in the appropriate bundles. If not set, defaults to the license from the Cargo.toml file.

##### licenseFile

`string` | `null`

The path to the license file to be included in the appropriate bundles.

##### linux



[`LinuxConfig`](#linuxconfig)

Configuration for the Linux bundles.


```json title='Default'
{
	"appimage": {
		"bundleMediaFramework": false,
		"files": {}
	},
	"deb": {
		"files": {}
	},
	"rpm": {
		"epoch": 0,
		"files": {},
		"release": "1"
	}
}
```


##### longDescription

`string` | `null`

A longer, multi-line description of the application.

##### macOS



[`MacConfig`](#macconfig)

Configuration for the macOS bundles.


```json title='Default'
{
	"dmg": {
		"appPosition": {
			"x": 180,
			"y": 170
		},
		"applicationFolderPosition": {
			"x": 480,
			"y": 170
		},
		"windowSize": {
			"height": 400,
			"width": 660
		}
	},
	"files": {},
	"minimumSystemVersion": "10.13"
}
```


##### publisher

`string` | `null`

The application's publisher. Defaults to the second element in the identifier string. Currently maps to the Manufacturer property of the Windows Installer.

##### resources



[`BundleResources`](#bundleresources) | `null`

App resources to bundle. Each resource is a path to a file or directory. Glob patterns are supported.

##### shortDescription

`string` | `null`

A short description of your application.

##### targets



[`BundleTarget`](#bundletarget)

The bundle targets, currently supports ["deb", "rpm", "appimage", "nsis", "msi", "app", "dmg", "updater"] or "all".

**Default**: `"all"`

##### windows



[`WindowsConfig`](#windowsconfig)

Configuration for the Windows bundles.


```json title='Default'
{
	"allowDowngrades": true,
	"certificateThumbprint": null,
	"digestAlgorithm": null,
	"nsis": null,
	"timestampUrl": null,
	"tsp": false,
	"webviewFixedRuntimePath": null,
	"webviewInstallMode": {
		"silent": true,
		"type": "downloadBootstrapper"
	},
	"wix": null
}
```


### BundleResources



**Any of the following**:

- `string`[] A list of paths to include.
-  A map of source to target paths. **Allows additional properties**: `string`

Definition for bundle resources. Can be either a list of paths to include or a map of source to target paths.

### BundleTarget



**Any of the following**:

- `"all"` Bundle all targets.
- [`BundleType`](#bundletype)[] A list of bundle targets.
-  [`BundleType`](#bundletype) A single bundle target.

Targets to bundle. Each value is case insensitive.

### BundleType



**One of the following**:

- `"deb"` The debian bundle (.deb).
- `"rpm"` The RPM bundle (.rpm).
- `"appimage"` The AppImage bundle (.appimage).
- `"msi"` The Microsoft Installer bundle (.msi).
- `"nsis"` The NSIS bundle (.exe).
- `"app"` The macOS application bundle (.app).
- `"dmg"` The Apple Disk Image bundle (.dmg).
- `"updater"` The Tauri updater bundle.

A bundle referenced by tauri-bundler.

### BundleTypeRole



**One of the following**:

- `"Editor"` CFBundleTypeRole.Editor. Files can be read and edited.
- `"Viewer"` CFBundleTypeRole.Viewer. Files can be read.
- `"Shell"` CFBundleTypeRole.Shell
- `"QLGenerator"` CFBundleTypeRole.QLGenerator
- `"None"` CFBundleTypeRole.None

macOS-only. Corresponds to CFBundleTypeRole

### Color

`integer` formatted as `uint8` | `integer` formatted as `uint8` | `integer` formatted as `uint8` | `integer` formatted as `uint8`[] maximum of `4` items, minimum of `4` items

a tuple struct of RGBA colors. Each value has minimum of 0 and maximum of 255.

### Csp



**Any of the following**:

- `string` The entire CSP policy in a single text string.
-  An object mapping a directive with its sources values as a list of strings. **Allows additional properties**: [`CspDirectiveSources`](#cspdirectivesources)

A Content-Security-Policy definition. See &lt;https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP&gt;.

### CspDirectiveSources



**Any of the following**:

- `string` An inline list of CSP sources. Same as [`Self::List`], but concatenated with a space separator.
- `string`[] A list of CSP sources. The collection will be concatenated with a space separator for the CSP string.

A Content-Security-Policy directive source list. See &lt;https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/Sources#sources&gt;.

### DebConfig



Configuration for Debian (.deb) bundles.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#debconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- depends 
- desktopTemplate 
- files 

##### depends

`string`[] | `null`

The list of deb dependencies your application relies on.

##### desktopTemplate

`string` | `null`

Path to a custom desktop file Handlebars template.

Available variables: `categories`, `comment` (optional), `exec`, `icon` and `name`.

##### files



The files to include on the package.

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

**Default**: `{}`

### DisabledCspModificationKind



**Any of the following**:

- `boolean` If `true`, disables all CSP modification. `false` is the default value and it configures Tauri to control the CSP.
- `string`[] Disables the given list of CSP directives modifications.

The possible values for the `dangerous_disable_asset_csp_modification` config option.

### DmgConfig



Configuration for Apple Disk Image (.dmg) bundles.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#dmgconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- applicationFolderPosition 
- appPosition 
- background 
- windowPosition 
- windowSize 

##### applicationFolderPosition



[`Position`](#position)

Position of application folder on window.


```json title='Default'
{
	"x": 480,
	"y": 170
}
```


##### appPosition



[`Position`](#position)

Position of app file on window.


```json title='Default'
{
	"x": 180,
	"y": 170
}
```


##### background

`string` | `null`

Image to use as the background in dmg file. Accepted formats: `png`/`jpg`/`gif`.

##### windowPosition



[`Position`](#position) | `null`

Position of volume window on screen.

##### windowSize



[`Size`](#size)

Size of volume window.


```json title='Default'
{
	"height": 400,
	"width": 660
}
```


### FileAssociation



File association

**Object Properties**:

- description 
- ext (required)
- mimeType 
- name 
- role 

##### description

`string` | `null`

The association description. Windows-only. It is displayed on the `Type` column on Windows Explorer.

##### ext

[`AssociationExt`](#associationext)[]

File extensions to associate with this app. e.g. 'png'

##### mimeType

`string` | `null`

The mime-type e.g. 'image/png' or 'text/plain'. Linux-only.

##### name

`string` | `null`

The name. Maps to `CFBundleTypeName` on macOS. Default to `ext[0]`

##### role



[`BundleTypeRole`](#bundletyperole)

The app's role with respect to the type. Maps to `CFBundleTypeRole` on macOS.

**Default**: `"Editor"`

### FrontendDist



**Any of the following**:

- `string` formatted as `uri` An external URL that should be used as the default application URL.
- `string` Path to a directory containing the frontend dist assets.
- `string`[] An array of files to embed on the app.

Defines the URL or assets to embed in the application.

### FsScope



**Any of the following**:

- `string`[] A list of paths that are allowed by this scope.
-  A complete scope configuration. **Object Properties**: - allow  - deny  - requireLiteralLeadingDot  ##### allow `string`[] A list of paths that are allowed by this scope. **Default**: `[]` ##### deny `string`[] A list of paths that are not allowed by this scope. This gets precedence over the [`Self::Scope::allow`] list. **Default**: `[]` ##### requireLiteralLeadingDot `boolean` | `null` Whether or not paths that contain components that start with a `.` will require that `.` appears literally in the pattern; `*`, `?`, `**`, or `[...]` will not match. This is useful because such files are conventionally considered hidden on Unix systems and it might be desirable to skip them when listing files.  Defaults to `true` on Unix systems and `false` on Windows

Protocol scope definition. It is a list of glob patterns that restrict the API access from the webview.

Each pattern can start with a variable that resolves to a system base directory. The variables are: `$AUDIO`, `$CACHE`, `$CONFIG`, `$DATA`, `$LOCALDATA`, `$DESKTOP`, `$DOCUMENT`, `$DOWNLOAD`, `$EXE`, `$FONT`, `$HOME`, `$PICTURE`, `$PUBLIC`, `$RUNTIME`, `$TEMPLATE`, `$VIDEO`, `$RESOURCE`, `$APP`, `$LOG`, `$TEMP`, `$APPCONFIG`, `$APPDATA`, `$APPLOCALDATA`, `$APPCACHE`, `$APPLOG`.

### HookCommand



**Any of the following**:

- `string` Run the given script with the default options.
-  Run the given script with custom options. **Object Properties**: - cwd  - script (required) ##### cwd `string` | `null` The current working directory. ##### script `string` The script to execute.

Describes a shell command to be executed when a CLI hook is triggered.

### IosConfig



General configuration for the iOS target.

**Object Properties**:

- developmentTeam 

##### developmentTeam

`string` | `null`

The development team. This value is required for iOS development because code signing is enforced. The `APPLE_DEVELOPMENT_TEAM` environment variable can be set to overwrite it.

### LinuxConfig



Configuration for Linux bundles.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#linuxconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- appimage 
- deb 
- rpm 

##### appimage



[`AppImageConfig`](#appimageconfig)

Configuration for the AppImage bundle.


```json title='Default'
{
	"bundleMediaFramework": false,
	"files": {}
}
```


##### deb



[`DebConfig`](#debconfig)

Configuration for the Debian bundle.


```json title='Default'
{
	"files": {}
}
```


##### rpm



[`RpmConfig`](#rpmconfig)

Configuration for the RPM bundle.


```json title='Default'
{
	"epoch": 0,
	"files": {},
	"release": "1"
}
```


### MacConfig



Configuration for the macOS bundles.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#macconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- dmg 
- entitlements 
- exceptionDomain 
- files 
- frameworks 
- minimumSystemVersion 
- providerShortName 
- signingIdentity 

##### dmg



[`DmgConfig`](#dmgconfig)

DMG-specific settings.


```json title='Default'
{
	"appPosition": {
		"x": 180,
		"y": 170
	},
	"applicationFolderPosition": {
		"x": 480,
		"y": 170
	},
	"windowSize": {
		"height": 400,
		"width": 660
	}
}
```


##### entitlements

`string` | `null`

Path to the entitlements file.

##### exceptionDomain

`string` | `null`

Allows your application to communicate with the outside world. It should be a lowercase, without port and protocol domain name.

##### files



The files to include in the application relative to the Contents directory.

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

**Default**: `{}`

##### frameworks

`string`[] | `null`

A list of strings indicating any macOS X frameworks that need to be bundled with the application.

If a name is used, ".framework" must be omitted and it will look for standard install locations. You may also use a path to a specific framework.

##### minimumSystemVersion

`string` | `null`

A version string indicating the minimum macOS X version that the bundled application supports. Defaults to `10.13`.

Setting it to `null` completely removes the `LSMinimumSystemVersion` field on the bundle's `Info.plist` and the `MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET` environment variable.

An empty string is considered an invalid value so the default value is used.

**Default**: `"10.13"`

##### providerShortName

`string` | `null`

Provider short name for notarization.

##### signingIdentity

`string` | `null`

Identity to use for code signing.

### NsisCompression



**One of the following**:

- `"zlib"` ZLIB uses the deflate algorithm, it is a quick and simple method. With the default compression level it uses about 300 KB of memory.
- `"bzip2"` BZIP2 usually gives better compression ratios than ZLIB, but it is a bit slower and uses more memory. With the default compression level it uses about 4 MB of memory.
- `"lzma"` LZMA (default) is a new compression method that gives very good compression ratios. The decompression speed is high (10-20 MB/s on a 2 GHz CPU), the compression speed is lower. The memory size that will be used for decompression is the dictionary size plus a few KBs, the default is 8 MB.

Compression algorithms used in the NSIS installer.

See &lt;https://nsis.sourceforge.io/Reference/SetCompressor&gt;

### NsisConfig



Configuration for the Installer bundle using NSIS.

**Object Properties**:

- compression 
- customLanguageFiles 
- displayLanguageSelector 
- headerImage 
- installerIcon 
- installMode 
- languages 
- sidebarImage 
- template 

##### compression



[`NsisCompression`](#nsiscompression) | `null`

Set the compression algorithm used to compress files in the installer.

See &lt;https://nsis.sourceforge.io/Reference/SetCompressor&gt;

##### customLanguageFiles

 | `null`

A key-value pair where the key is the language and the value is the path to a custom `.nsh` file that holds the translated text for tauri's custom messages.

See &lt;https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/dev/tooling/bundler/src/bundle/windows/templates/nsis-languages/English.nsh&gt; for an example `.nsh` file.

**Note**: the key must be a valid NSIS language and it must be added to [`NsisConfig`] languages array,

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

##### displayLanguageSelector

`boolean`

Whether to display a language selector dialog before the installer and uninstaller windows are rendered or not. By default the OS language is selected, with a fallback to the first language in the `languages` array.

##### headerImage

`string` | `null`

The path to a bitmap file to display on the header of installers pages.

The recommended dimensions are 150px x 57px.

##### installerIcon

`string` | `null`

The path to an icon file used as the installer icon.

##### installMode



[`NSISInstallerMode`](#nsisinstallermode)

Whether the installation will be for all users or just the current user.

**Default**: `"currentUser"`

##### languages

`string`[] | `null`

A list of installer languages. By default the OS language is used. If the OS language is not in the list of languages, the first language will be used. To allow the user to select the language, set `display_language_selector` to `true`.

See &lt;https://github.com/kichik/nsis/tree/9465c08046f00ccb6eda985abbdbf52c275c6c4d/Contrib/Language%20files&gt; for the complete list of languages.

##### sidebarImage

`string` | `null`

The path to a bitmap file for the Welcome page and the Finish page.

The recommended dimensions are 164px x 314px.

##### template

`string` | `null`

A custom .nsi template to use.

### NSISInstallerMode



**One of the following**:

- `"currentUser"` Default mode for the installer.  Install the app by default in a directory that doesn't require Administrator access.  Installer metadata will be saved under the `HKCU` registry path.
- `"perMachine"` Install the app by default in the `Program Files` folder directory requires Administrator access for the installation.  Installer metadata will be saved under the `HKLM` registry path.
- `"both"` Combines both modes and allows the user to choose at install time whether to install for the current user or per machine. Note that this mode will require Administrator access even if the user wants to install it for the current user only.  Installer metadata will be saved under the `HKLM` or `HKCU` registry path based on the user's choice.

Install Modes for the NSIS installer.

### PatternKind



**One of the following**:

-  Brownfield pattern. **Object Properties**: - use (required) ##### use `"brownfield"`
-  Isolation pattern. Recommended for security purposes. **Object Properties**: - options (required) - use (required) ##### options  **Object Properties**: - dir (required) ###### dir `string` The dir containing the index.html file that contains the secure isolation application. ##### use `"isolation"`

The application pattern.

### PluginConfig



The plugin configs holds a HashMap mapping a plugin name to its configuration object.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#pluginconfig&gt;

**Allows additional properties**: `true`

### Position



Position coordinates struct.

**Object Properties**:

- x (required)
- y (required)

##### x

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

X coordinate.

##### y

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

Y coordinate.

### RpmConfig



Configuration for RPM bundles.

**Object Properties**:

- depends 
- desktopTemplate 
- epoch 
- files 
- release 

##### depends

`string`[] | `null`

The list of RPM dependencies your application relies on.

##### desktopTemplate

`string` | `null`

Path to a custom desktop file Handlebars template.

Available variables: `categories`, `comment` (optional), `exec`, `icon` and `name`.

##### epoch

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

The RPM epoch.

##### files



The files to include on the package.

**Allows additional properties**: `string`

**Default**: `{}`

##### release

`string`

The RPM release tag.

**Default**: `"1"`

### SecurityConfig



Security configuration.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#securityconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- assetProtocol 
- csp 
- dangerousDisableAssetCspModification 
- devCsp 
- freezePrototype 
- pattern 

##### assetProtocol



[`AssetProtocolConfig`](#assetprotocolconfig)

Custom protocol config.


```json title='Default'
{
	"enable": false,
	"scope": []
}
```


##### csp



[`Csp`](#csp) | `null`

The Content Security Policy that will be injected on all HTML files on the built application. If [`dev_csp`](#securityconfig) is not specified, this value is also injected on dev.

This is a really important part of the configuration since it helps you ensure your WebView is secured. See &lt;https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP&gt;.

##### dangerousDisableAssetCspModification



[`DisabledCspModificationKind`](#disabledcspmodificationkind)

Disables the Tauri-injected CSP sources.

At compile time, Tauri parses all the frontend assets and changes the Content-Security-Policy to only allow loading of your own scripts and styles by injecting nonce and hash sources. This stricts your CSP, which may introduce issues when using along with other flexing sources.

This configuration option allows both a boolean and a list of strings as value. A boolean instructs Tauri to disable the injection for all CSP injections, and a list of strings indicates the CSP directives that Tauri cannot inject.

**WARNING:** Only disable this if you know what you are doing and have properly configured the CSP. Your application might be vulnerable to XSS attacks without this Tauri protection.

##### devCsp



[`Csp`](#csp) | `null`

The Content Security Policy that will be injected on all HTML files on development.

This is a really important part of the configuration since it helps you ensure your WebView is secured. See &lt;https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP&gt;.

##### freezePrototype

`boolean`

Freeze the `Object.prototype` when using the custom protocol.

##### pattern



[`PatternKind`](#patternkind)

The pattern to use.


```json title='Default'
{
	"use": "brownfield"
}
```


### Size



Size of the window.

**Object Properties**:

- height (required)
- width (required)

##### height

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

Height of the window.

##### width

`integer` formatted as `uint32`

Width of the window.

### Theme



**One of the following**:

- `"Light"` Light theme.
- `"Dark"` Dark theme.

System theme.

### TitleBarStyle



**One of the following**:

- `"Visible"` A normal title bar.
- `"Transparent"` Makes the title bar transparent, so the window background color is shown instead.  Useful if you don't need to have actual HTML under the title bar. This lets you avoid the caveats of using `TitleBarStyle::Overlay`. Will be more useful when Tauri lets you set a custom window background color.
- `"Overlay"` Shows the title bar as a transparent overlay over the window's content.  Keep in mind: - The height of the title bar is different on different OS versions, which can lead to window the controls and title not being where you don't expect. - You need to define a custom drag region to make your window draggable, however due to a limitation you can't drag the window when it's not in focus &lt;https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/4316&gt;. - The color of the window title depends on the system theme.

How the window title bar should be displayed on macOS.

### TrayIconConfig



Configuration for application tray icon.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#trayiconconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- iconAsTemplate 
- iconPath (required)
- id 
- menuOnLeftClick 
- title 
- tooltip 

##### iconAsTemplate

`boolean`

A Boolean value that determines whether the image represents a [template](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsimage/1520017-template?language=objc) image on macOS.

##### iconPath

`string`

Path to the default icon to use for the tray icon.

##### id

`string` | `null`

Set an id for this tray icon so you can reference it later, defaults to `main`.

##### menuOnLeftClick

`boolean`

A Boolean value that determines whether the menu should appear when the tray icon receives a left click on macOS.

**Default**: `true`

##### title

`string` | `null`

Title for MacOS tray

##### tooltip

`string` | `null`

Tray icon tooltip on Windows and macOS

### WebviewInstallMode



**One of the following**:

-  Do not install the Webview2 as part of the Windows Installer. **Object Properties**: - type (required) ##### type `"skip"`
-  Download the bootstrapper and run it. Requires an internet connection. Results in a smaller installer size, but is not recommended on Windows 7. **Object Properties**: - silent  - type (required) ##### silent `boolean` Instructs the installer to run the bootstrapper in silent mode. Defaults to `true`. **Default**: `true` ##### type `"downloadBootstrapper"`
-  Embed the bootstrapper and run it. Requires an internet connection. Increases the installer size by around 1.8MB, but offers better support on Windows 7. **Object Properties**: - silent  - type (required) ##### silent `boolean` Instructs the installer to run the bootstrapper in silent mode. Defaults to `true`. **Default**: `true` ##### type `"embedBootstrapper"`
-  Embed the offline installer and run it. Does not require an internet connection. Increases the installer size by around 127MB. **Object Properties**: - silent  - type (required) ##### silent `boolean` Instructs the installer to run the installer in silent mode. Defaults to `true`. **Default**: `true` ##### type `"offlineInstaller"`
-  Embed a fixed webview2 version and use it at runtime. Increases the installer size by around 180MB. **Object Properties**: - path (required) - type (required) ##### path `string` The path to the fixed runtime to use.  The fixed version can be downloaded [on the official website](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/#download-section). The `.cab` file must be extracted to a folder and this folder path must be defined on this field. ##### type `"fixedRuntime"`

Install modes for the Webview2 runtime. Note that for the updater bundle [`Self::DownloadBootstrapper`] is used.

For more information see &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/guides/developing/windows&gt;.

### WebviewUrl



**Any of the following**:

- `string` formatted as `uri` An external URL. Must use either the `http` or `https` schemes.
- `string` The path portion of an app URL. For instance, to load `tauri://localhost/users/john`, you can simply provide `users/john` in this configuration.
- `string` formatted as `uri` A custom protocol url, for example, `doom://index.html`

An URL to open on a Tauri webview window.

### WindowConfig



The window configuration object.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#windowconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- acceptFirstMouse 
- additionalBrowserArgs 
- alwaysOnBottom 
- alwaysOnTop 
- center 
- closable 
- contentProtected 
- decorations 
- fileDropEnabled 
- focus 
- fullscreen 
- height 
- hiddenTitle 
- incognito 
- label 
- maxHeight 
- maximizable 
- maximized 
- maxWidth 
- minHeight 
- minimizable 
- minWidth 
- parent 
- proxyUrl 
- resizable 
- shadow 
- skipTaskbar 
- tabbingIdentifier 
- theme 
- title 
- titleBarStyle 
- transparent 
- url 
- userAgent 
- visible 
- visibleOnAllWorkspaces 
- width 
- windowEffects 
- x 
- y 

##### acceptFirstMouse

`boolean`

Whether clicking an inactive window also clicks through to the webview on macOS.

##### additionalBrowserArgs

`string` | `null`

Defines additional browser arguments on Windows. By default wry passes `--disable-features=msWebOOUI,msPdfOOUI,msSmartScreenProtection` so if you use this method, you also need to disable these components by yourself if you want.

##### alwaysOnBottom

`boolean`

Whether the window should always be below other windows.

##### alwaysOnTop

`boolean`

Whether the window should always be on top of other windows.

##### center

`boolean`

Whether or not the window starts centered or not.

##### closable

`boolean`

Whether the window's native close button is enabled or not.

###### Platform-specific

- **Linux:** "GTK+ will do its best to convince the window manager not to show a close button. Depending on the system, this function may not have any effect when called on a window that is already visible" - **iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### contentProtected

`boolean`

Prevents the window contents from being captured by other apps.

##### decorations

`boolean`

Whether the window should have borders and bars.

**Default**: `true`

##### fileDropEnabled

`boolean`

Whether the file drop is enabled or not on the webview. By default it is enabled.

Disabling it is required to use drag and drop on the frontend on Windows.

**Default**: `true`

##### focus

`boolean`

Whether the window will be initially focused or not.

**Default**: `true`

##### fullscreen

`boolean`

Whether the window starts as fullscreen or not.

##### height

`number` formatted as `double`

The window height.

**Default**: `600`

##### hiddenTitle

`boolean`

If `true`, sets the window title to be hidden on macOS.

##### incognito

`boolean`

Whether or not the webview should be launched in incognito  mode.

###### Platform-specific:

- **Android**: Unsupported.

##### label

`string`

The window identifier. It must be alphanumeric.

**Default**: `"main"`

##### maxHeight

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The max window height.

##### maximizable

`boolean`

Whether the window's native maximize button is enabled or not. If resizable is set to false, this setting is ignored.

###### Platform-specific

- **macOS:** Disables the "zoom" button in the window titlebar, which is also used to enter fullscreen mode. - **Linux / iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### maximized

`boolean`

Whether the window is maximized or not.

##### maxWidth

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The max window width.

##### minHeight

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The min window height.

##### minimizable

`boolean`

Whether the window's native minimize button is enabled or not.

###### Platform-specific

- **Linux / iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### minWidth

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The min window width.

##### parent

`string` | `null`

Sets the window associated with this label to be the parent of the window to be created.

###### Platform-specific

- **Windows**: This sets the passed parent as an owner window to the window to be created. From [MSDN owned windows docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/winmsg/window-features#owned-windows): - An owned window is always above its owner in the z-order. - The system automatically destroys an owned window when its owner is destroyed. - An owned window is hidden when its owner is minimized. - **Linux**: This makes the new window transient for parent, see &lt;https://docs.gtk.org/gtk3/method.Window.set_transient_for.html&gt; - **macOS**: This adds the window as a child of parent, see &lt;https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nswindow/1419152-addchildwindow?language=objc&gt;

##### proxyUrl

`string` | `null` formatted as `uri`

The proxy URL for the WebView for all network requests.

Must be either a `http://` or a `socks5://` URL.

###### Platform-specific

- **macOS**: Requires the `macos-proxy` feature flag and only compiles for macOS 14+.

##### resizable

`boolean`

Whether the window is resizable or not. When resizable is set to false, native window's maximize button is automatically disabled.

**Default**: `true`

##### shadow

`boolean`

Whether or not the window has shadow.

###### Platform-specific

- **Windows:** - `false` has no effect on decorated window, shadow are always ON. - `true` will make ndecorated window have a 1px white border, and on Windows 11, it will have a rounded corners. - **Linux:** Unsupported.

**Default**: `true`

##### skipTaskbar

`boolean`

If `true`, hides the window icon from the taskbar on Windows and Linux.

##### tabbingIdentifier

`string` | `null`

Defines the window [tabbing identifier] for macOS.

Windows with matching tabbing identifiers will be grouped together. If the tabbing identifier is not set, automatic tabbing will be disabled.

[tabbing identifier]: &lt;https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nswindow/1644704-tabbingidentifier&gt;

##### theme



[`Theme`](#theme) | `null`

The initial window theme. Defaults to the system theme. Only implemented on Windows and macOS 10.14+.

##### title

`string`

The window title.

**Default**: `"Tauri App"`

##### titleBarStyle



[`TitleBarStyle`](#titlebarstyle)

The style of the macOS title bar.

**Default**: `"Visible"`

##### transparent

`boolean`

Whether the window is transparent or not.

Note that on `macOS` this requires the `macos-private-api` feature flag, enabled under `tauri &gt; macOSPrivateApi`. WARNING: Using private APIs on `macOS` prevents your application from being accepted to the `App Store`.

##### url



[`WebviewUrl`](#webviewurl)

The window webview URL.

**Default**: `"index.html"`

##### userAgent

`string` | `null`

The user agent for the webview

##### visible

`boolean`

Whether the window is visible or not.

**Default**: `true`

##### visibleOnAllWorkspaces

`boolean`

Whether the window should be visible on all workspaces or virtual desktops.

###### Platform-specific

- **Windows / iOS / Android:** Unsupported.

##### width

`number` formatted as `double`

The window width.

**Default**: `800`

##### windowEffects



[`WindowEffectsConfig`](#windoweffectsconfig) | `null`

Window effects.

Requires the window to be transparent.

###### Platform-specific:

- **Windows**: If using decorations or shadows, you may want to try this workaround &lt;https://github.com/tauri-apps/tao/issues/72#issuecomment-975607891&gt; - **Linux**: Unsupported

##### x

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The horizontal position of the window's top left corner

##### y

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

The vertical position of the window's top left corner

### WindowEffect



**One of the following**:

- `"appearanceBased"` A default material appropriate for the view's effectiveAppearance. **macOS 10.14-**
- `"light"` *macOS 10.14-**
- `"dark"` *macOS 10.14-**
- `"mediumLight"` *macOS 10.14-**
- `"ultraDark"` *macOS 10.14-**
- `"titlebar"` *macOS 10.10+**
- `"selection"` *macOS 10.10+**
- `"menu"` *macOS 10.11+**
- `"popover"` *macOS 10.11+**
- `"sidebar"` *macOS 10.11+**
- `"headerView"` *macOS 10.14+**
- `"sheet"` *macOS 10.14+**
- `"windowBackground"` *macOS 10.14+**
- `"hudWindow"` *macOS 10.14+**
- `"fullScreenUI"` *macOS 10.14+**
- `"tooltip"` *macOS 10.14+**
- `"contentBackground"` *macOS 10.14+**
- `"underWindowBackground"` *macOS 10.14+**
- `"underPageBackground"` *macOS 10.14+**
- `"mica"` Mica effect that matches the system dark perefence **Windows 11 Only**
- `"micaDark"` Mica effect with dark mode but only if dark mode is enabled on the system **Windows 11 Only**
- `"micaLight"` Mica effect with light mode **Windows 11 Only**
- `"tabbed"` Tabbed effect that matches the system dark perefence **Windows 11 Only**
- `"tabbedDark"` Tabbed effect with dark mode but only if dark mode is enabled on the system **Windows 11 Only**
- `"tabbedLight"` Tabbed effect with light mode **Windows 11 Only**
- `"blur"` **Windows 7/10/11(22H1) Only**  ##### Notes  This effect has bad performance when resizing/dragging the window on Windows 11 build 22621.
- `"acrylic"` **Windows 10/11 Only**  ##### Notes  This effect has bad performance when resizing/dragging the window on Windows 10 v1903+ and Windows 11 build 22000.

Platform-specific window effects

### WindowEffectsConfig



The window effects configuration object

**Object Properties**:

- color 
- effects (required)
- radius 
- state 

##### color



[`Color`](#color) | `null`

Window effect color. Affects [`WindowEffect::Blur`] and [`WindowEffect::Acrylic`] only on Windows 10 v1903+. Doesn't have any effect on Windows 7 or Windows 11.

##### effects

[`WindowEffect`](#windoweffect)[]

List of Window effects to apply to the Window. Conflicting effects will apply the first one and ignore the rest.

##### radius

`number` | `null` formatted as `double`

Window effect corner radius **macOS Only**

##### state



[`WindowEffectState`](#windoweffectstate) | `null`

Window effect state **macOS Only**

### WindowEffectState



**One of the following**:

- `"followsWindowActiveState"` Make window effect state follow the window's active state
- `"active"` Make window effect state always active
- `"inactive"` Make window effect state always inactive

Window effect state **macOS only**

&lt;https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsvisualeffectview/state&gt;

### WindowsConfig



Windows bundler configuration.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#windowsconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- allowDowngrades 
- certificateThumbprint 
- digestAlgorithm 
- nsis 
- timestampUrl 
- tsp 
- webviewFixedRuntimePath 
- webviewInstallMode 
- wix 

##### allowDowngrades

`boolean`

Validates a second app installation, blocking the user from installing an older version if set to `false`.

For instance, if `1.2.1` is installed, the user won't be able to install app version `1.2.0` or `1.1.5`.

The default value of this flag is `true`.

**Default**: `true`

##### certificateThumbprint

`string` | `null`

Specifies the SHA1 hash of the signing certificate.

##### digestAlgorithm

`string` | `null`

Specifies the file digest algorithm to use for creating file signatures. Required for code signing. SHA-256 is recommended.

##### nsis



[`NsisConfig`](#nsisconfig) | `null`

Configuration for the installer generated with NSIS.

##### timestampUrl

`string` | `null`

Server to use during timestamping.

##### tsp

`boolean`

Whether to use Time-Stamp Protocol (TSP, a.k.a. RFC 3161) for the timestamp server. Your code signing provider may use a TSP timestamp server, like e.g. SSL.com does. If so, enable TSP by setting to true.

##### webviewFixedRuntimePath

`string` | `null`

Path to the webview fixed runtime to use. Overwrites [`Self::webview_install_mode`] if set.

Will be removed in v2, prefer the [`Self::webview_install_mode`] option.

The fixed version can be downloaded [on the official website](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/#download-section). The `.cab` file must be extracted to a folder and this folder path must be defined on this field.

##### webviewInstallMode



[`WebviewInstallMode`](#webviewinstallmode)

The installation mode for the Webview2 runtime.


```json title='Default'
{
	"silent": true,
	"type": "downloadBootstrapper"
}
```


##### wix



[`WixConfig`](#wixconfig) | `null`

Configuration for the MSI generated with WiX.

### WixConfig



Configuration for the MSI bundle using WiX.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#wixconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- bannerPath 
- componentGroupRefs 
- componentRefs 
- dialogImagePath 
- enableElevatedUpdateTask 
- featureGroupRefs 
- featureRefs 
- fragmentPaths 
- language 
- mergeRefs 
- skipWebviewInstall 
- template 

##### bannerPath

`string` | `null`

Path to a bitmap file to use as the installation user interface banner. This bitmap will appear at the top of all but the first page of the installer.

The required dimensions are 493px × 58px.

##### componentGroupRefs

`string`[]

The ComponentGroup element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### componentRefs

`string`[]

The Component element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### dialogImagePath

`string` | `null`

Path to a bitmap file to use on the installation user interface dialogs. It is used on the welcome and completion dialogs. The required dimensions are 493px × 312px.

##### enableElevatedUpdateTask

`boolean`

Create an elevated update task within Windows Task Scheduler.

##### featureGroupRefs

`string`[]

The FeatureGroup element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### featureRefs

`string`[]

The Feature element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### fragmentPaths

`string`[]

A list of paths to .wxs files with WiX fragments to use.

**Default**: `[]`

##### language



[`WixLanguage`](#wixlanguage)

The installer languages to build. See &lt;https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/msi/localizing-the-error-and-actiontext-tables&gt;.

**Default**: `"en-US"`

##### mergeRefs

`string`[]

The Merge element ids you want to reference from the fragments.

**Default**: `[]`

##### skipWebviewInstall

`boolean`

Disables the Webview2 runtime installation after app install.

Will be removed in v2, prefer the [`WindowsConfig::webview_install_mode`] option.

##### template

`string` | `null`

A custom .wxs template to use.

### WixLanguage



**Any of the following**:

- `string` A single language to build, without configuration.
- `string`[] A list of languages to build, without configuration.
-  A map of languages and its configuration. **Allows additional properties**: [`WixLanguageConfig`](#wixlanguageconfig)

The languages to build using WiX.

### WixLanguageConfig



Configuration for a target language for the WiX build.

See more: &lt;https://tauri.app/v1/api/config#wixlanguageconfig&gt;

**Object Properties**:

- localePath 

##### localePath

`string` | `null`

The path to a locale (`.wxl`) file. See &lt;https://wixtoolset.org/documentation/manual/v3/howtos/ui_and_localization/build_a_localized_version.html&gt;.