docs/development/updating-dependencies.md, before:

# Updating Dependencies

:::caution Please note
Especially during the alpha and beta phases, we expect you to keep all Tauri dependencies and toolchains up to date. There is no support for any versions other than latest.
:::

## Automatic updates

The Tauri JS CLI has a command to install and update all needed dependencies, just run `tauri deps install` or `tauri deps update`.

## Manual updates

### Update NPM Packages

If you are using the `tauri` package:

```bash
yarn upgrade @tauri-apps/cli @tauri-apps/api --latest
npm install @tauri-apps/cli@latest @tauri-apps/api@latest
```

You can also detect what the latest version of Tauri is on the command line, using:

- `npm outdated @tauri-apps/cli`
- `yarn outdated @tauri-apps/cli`

Alternatively, if you are using the `vue-cli-plugin-tauri` approach:

```bash
yarn upgrade vue-cli-plugin-tauri --latest
npm install vue-cli-plugin-tauri@latest
```

### Update Cargo Packages

Go to `src-tauri/Cargo.toml` and change `tauri` to
`tauri = { version = "%version%" }` where `%version%` is the version number shown above. (You can just use the `MAJOR.MINOR`) version, like `0.9`.

Then do the following:

```bash
cd src-tauri
cargo update -p tauri
```

You can also run `cargo outdated -r tauri` to get direct information about the core library's latest version.

Commit message:

fix: cleanup docs about `deps` and `icon` commands (#484)
* fix: cleanup docs for `deps` and `icon` commands

* fix: use bash for codeblock syntax highlighting

* Update docs/guides/icons.md

Co-authored-by: Amr Bashir <amr.bashir2015@gmail.com>

* remove section about deps command

Co-authored-by: Amr Bashir <amr.bashir2015@gmail.com>

docs/development/updating-dependencies.md, after:

# Updating Dependencies

:::caution Please note
Especially during the alpha and beta phases, we expect you to keep all Tauri dependencies and toolchains up to date. There is no support for any versions other than latest.
:::

## Update NPM Packages

If you are using the `tauri` package:

```bash
yarn upgrade @tauri-apps/cli @tauri-apps/api --latest
npm install @tauri-apps/cli@latest @tauri-apps/api@latest
```

You can also detect what the latest version of Tauri is on the command line, using:

- `npm outdated @tauri-apps/cli`
- `yarn outdated @tauri-apps/cli`

Alternatively, if you are using the `vue-cli-plugin-tauri` approach:

```bash
yarn upgrade vue-cli-plugin-tauri --latest
npm install vue-cli-plugin-tauri@latest
```

## Update Cargo Packages

You can check for outdated packages with [`cargo outdated`] or on the crates.io pages: [tauri] / [tauri-build].

Go to `src-tauri/Cargo.toml` and change `tauri` and `tauri-build` to

```toml
[build-dependencies]
tauri-build = "%version%"

[dependencies]
tauri = { version = "%version%" }
```

where `%version%` is the corresponding version number from above. <!-- TODO: (You can just use the `MAJOR.MINOR`) version, like `0.9`. -->

Then do the following:

```bash
cd src-tauri
cargo update
```

Alternatively you can run the `cargo upgrade` command provided by [cargo-edit] which does all of this automatically.

[`cargo outdated`]: https://github.com/kbknapp/cargo-outdated
[tauri]: https://crates.io/crates/tauri/versions
[tauri-build]: https://crates.io/crates/tauri-build/versions
[cargo-edit]: https://github.com/killercup/cargo-edit
