docs/en/usage/development/publishing.md, before:

---
title: App Publishing
sidebar_label: 'App Publishing (4/4)'
---

import Alert from '@theme/Alert'
import Command from '@theme/Command'

### 1. Build Your Web App

Now that you are ready to package your project, you will need to run your framework's or bundler's build command (assuming you're using one, of course).

<Alert title="Note">
Every framework has its own publishing tooling. It is outside of the scope of this document to treat them all or keep them up to date.
</Alert>

### 2. Tauri Bundler

Make certain that you have installed that Tauri bundler:

```sh
cargo tauri-bundler -v
```

If you do not see a version number being reported, then you must install the bundler:

```sh
cargo install tauri-bundler
```

<Alert title="Note">
We chose to call this bundler "tauri-bundler" because in the near future we will be providing a <strong>Rust-only</strong> entry point to Tauri.
</Alert>


### 3. Bundle your application with Tauri

<Command name="build" />

Like the dev window, the first time you run this, it will take some time to collect the Rust crates and build everything - but on subsequent runs it will only need to rebuild the Tauri crates which is much quicker.

Because of the way that Cargo builds its targets, the final app is placed in the following folder:

`src-tauri/target/release/bundle`

Commit message:

Beta RC Update (#174)
* feat(howtos): Renamed recipes for howtos

* feat(usage/howtos): update command guide

* feat(docs): Added new feature docs

* feat(docs): Added new feature docs

* feat(docs): Added new feature docs

* feat(usage/howtos): update splashscreen guide

* feat: update getting started guide

* feat(getting-started): update windows instructions

* remove guides that won't be written

* feat(howtos): add window customization guide

* fix(howtos/window-customization): update code sample

* update examples

* chore: update some docs (WIP API)

* some updates

* feat(jsAPI): Added full API docs

* chore: Changed 'Alpha' for 'Beta'

* refactor: "osx" is now "macOS", `exceptionDomain` moved to macOS config

* refactor: update changelog packages

* feat: code signing configs

* oops, multiwin is available

* remove ctx

* feat: add package config

* new allowlist configuration

* multiwindow config

* remove inliner cfg

* remove edge config

* fix: windows examples

* update roadmap

* update changelog packages

* chore(security): update text

Signed-off-by: Daniel Thompson-Yvetot <denjell@mailscript.com>

* feat(security): text updates

Signed-off-by: Daniel Thompson-Yvetot <denjell@mailscript.com>

* chore(multiwin): update

Signed-off-by: Daniel Thompson-Yvetot <denjell@mailscript.com>

* add updater howto (from @lemarier updater's README.md)

* from $str to String (#183)

* chore(details): less is less

Signed-off-by: Daniel Thompson-Yvetot <denjell@mailscript.com>

* feat(JSdocs)

* fix(roadmap)

Signed-off-by: Daniel Thompson-Yvetot <denjell@mailscript.com>

* fix(sidebar)

Signed-off-by: Daniel Thompson-Yvetot <denjell@mailscript.com>

Co-authored-by: Noah Klayman <noahklayman@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Lucas Nogueira <lucas@tauri.studio>
Co-authored-by: Daniel Thompson-Yvetot <denjell@mailscript.com>
Co-authored-by: Ludea <ludovicw35@hotmail.com>

docs/en/usage/development/publishing.md, after:

---
title: App Publishing
sidebar_label: 'App Publishing (4/4)'
---

import Alert from '@theme/Alert'
import Command from '@theme/Command'

### 1. Build Your Web App

Now that you are ready to package your project, you will need to run your framework's or bundler's build command (assuming you're using one, of course).

<Alert title="Note">
Every framework has its own publishing tooling. It is outside of the scope of this document to treat them all or keep them up to date.
</Alert>

### 2. Bundle your application with Tauri

<Command name="build" />

This command will embed your web assets into a single binary with your Rust code. The binary itself will be located in `src-tauri/target/release/[app name]`, and installers will be located in `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/`.

Like the `tauri dev` command, the first time you run this, it will take some time to collect the Rust crates and build everything - but on subsequent runs it will only need to rebuild your code, which is much quicker.
