docs/guides/getting-started/setup/next-js.mdx, before:

---
description: Build a Tauri app using Next.js as the frontend build tool
pagination_next: guides/development/development-cycle
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_custom_props:
  doc_card_image: /img/guides/getting-started/setup/nextjs-light.svg
  doc_card_image_dark: /img/guides/getting-started/setup/nextjs-dark.svg
---

import TauriInit from './_fragments/_tauri-init.mdx'
import Commands from './_fragments/_commands.mdx'
import Intro from './_fragments/_intro.mdx'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Command, { InstallTauriApi } from '@theme/Command'

# Next.js

This guide will walk you through creating your first Tauri app using the React framework [Next.js].

<Intro />

Here's a preview of what we will be building:

![Application Preview](/img/guides/getting-started/setup/next-js/next-js-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Application Preview](/img/guides/getting-started/setup/next-js/next-js-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Create the Frontend

[Next.js] is a React Framework that comes with both Server-Side Rendering (SSR) and Static-Site Generation (SSG) capabilities. To make Next.js work with Tauri we are going to use the SSG mode since it generates only static files that can be included in the final binary.

Next.js comes with a scaffolding utility similar to [`create-tauri-app`] that can quickly setup a new project from many pre-defined templates.
For this guide, we will use the TypeScript template to create a simple project.

<Tabs groupId="package-manager">
  <TabItem value="npm">

```shell
npx create-next-app@latest --use-npm --typescript
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Yarn">

```shell
yarn create next-app --typescript
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="pnpm">

```shell
pnpm create next-app --use-pnpm --typescript
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

1. _Project name_  
   This will be the name of your project. It corresponds to the name of the folder this utility will create but has otherwise no effect on your app. You can use any name you want here.

2. _Experimental `app/` directory_  
   Next.js will ask you if you want to try the new and experimental `app/` directory. You must select `No` because it does not yet support the `next export` command.

When starting or building the frontend, Next.js will look for a config file named `next.config.js` inside the project root.
We want to customize this file to get the best compatibility with Tauri.

Update the file with the following content:

```typescript title=next.config.js
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */

const nextConfig = {
  reactStrictMode: true,
  // Note: This feature is required to use NextJS Image in SSG mode.
  // See https://nextjs.org/docs/messages/export-image-api for different workarounds.
  images: {
    unoptimized: true,
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

To be able to build in production we must add a `next export` command in `package.json`.
This will produce a static HTML/JavaScript version of your Next.js application in the `out` folder.
We'll also add the `tauri` command to `package.json`.

Your `package.json` should look like this:

```json title=package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev",
    "build": "next build",
    "export": "next export",
    "start": "next start",
    "tauri": "tauri",
    "lint": "next lint"
  },
```

## Next.js in SSG mode

The "benefit" of using SSG mode is pre-rendered React code in static HTML/JavaScript. This means your page can load faster.
React doesn't have to render the HTML on the client-side but will hydrate it on the first load if needed.
The "downside" is that we cannot use `getServerSideProps` or use any type of "data fetching" for rendering our page for a request.

:::tip

You can use `getStaticProps` to generate HTML/JavaScript pages at build time. Since it is executed in the Node.js context, calling the Tauri api won't work. You can learn more about Next.js SSG in the [official documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/pages#static-generation-recommended).

:::

## Create the Rust Project

<TauriInit
  destDirExplination={{ __html: 'Use <code>../out</code> for this value.' }}
  devPathExplination={{
    __html: 'Use <code>http://localhost:3000</code> for this value.',
  }}
  beforeBuildCommandExplination={{
    __html: 'Use <code>npm run build && npm run export</code> for this value.',
  }}
  beforeDevCommandExplination={{
    __html: 'Use <code>npm run dev</code> for this value.',
  }}
/>

Now that we have scaffolded our frontend and initialized the Rust project you're almost ready to run your app. Your `tauri.conf.json` file should look something like this:

```json title=src-tauri/tauri.conf.json
{
  "build": {
    "beforeBuildCommand": "npm run build && npm run export",
    "beforeDevCommand": "npm run dev",
    "devPath": "http://localhost:3000",
    "distDir": "../out"
  },
```

And that's it! Now you can run the following command in your terminal to start a development build of your app:

<Command name="dev" />

![Application Window](/img/guides/getting-started/setup/next-js/next-js-dev-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Application Window](/img/guides/getting-started/setup/next-js/next-js-dev-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Invoke Commands

<Commands />

To call our newly created command we will use the [`@tauri-apps/api`] JavaScript library. It provides access to core functionality such as window manipulation, the filesystem, and more through convenient JavaScript abstractions. You can install it using your favorite JavaScript package manager:

<InstallTauriApi />

With the library installed, you can modify your `pages/index.tsx` file to call the Command:

```typescript title=pages/index.tsx
import { invoke } from '@tauri-apps/api/tauri'

// Note: When working with Next.js in development you have 2 execution contexts:
// - The server (nodejs), where Tauri cannot be reached, because the current context is inside of nodejs.
// - The client (webview), where it is possible to interact with the Tauri rust backend.
// To check if we are currently executing in the client context, we can check the type of the window object;
const isClient = typeof window !== 'undefined'

// Now we can call our Command!
// Right-click on the application background and open the developer tools.
// You will see "Hello, World!" printed in the console.
isClient &&
  invoke('greet', { name: 'World' }).then(console.log).catch(console.error)
```

A better approach would be to use Tauri calls in `componentDidMount` or `useEffect` that are only run on the client-side by [Next.js].

So to make it cleaner we should rewrite it like this:

```typescript title=pages/index.tsx
import { invoke } from "@tauri-apps/api/tauri"

const Home: NextPage = () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    invoke('greet', { name: 'World' })
    .then(console.log)
    .catch(console.error)
  }, []);
```

:::tip

If you want to know more about the communication between Rust and JavaScript, please read the Tauri [Inter-Process Communication][inter-process-communication] guide.

:::

<!-- TODO: Show how you can add this and screenshots of what it looks like -->

[next.js]: https://nextjs.org
[cargo]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/
[typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org
[prerequisites]: ../prerequisites.md
[`@tauri-apps/api`]: ../../../api/js/
[inter-process-communication]: ../../../references/architecture/inter-process-communication/readme.md
[`create-tauri-app`]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/create-tauri-app

Commit message:

Update next.js gettting-started since Next.js 23.3.0 now supports `next export`
Since 23.0.0, Next.js now supports static exports with `next export`.

Source: https://beta.nextjs.org/docs/app-directory-roadmap#configuration
Details: https://beta.nextjs.org/docs/configuring/static-export

We can now update the docs to reflect this change and let the user now that appDir is not a viable option

docs/guides/getting-started/setup/next-js.mdx, after:

---
description: Build a Tauri app using Next.js as the frontend build tool
pagination_next: guides/development/development-cycle
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_custom_props:
  doc_card_image: /img/guides/getting-started/setup/nextjs-light.svg
  doc_card_image_dark: /img/guides/getting-started/setup/nextjs-dark.svg
---

import TauriInit from './_fragments/_tauri-init.mdx'
import Commands from './_fragments/_commands.mdx'
import Intro from './_fragments/_intro.mdx'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Command, { InstallTauriApi } from '@theme/Command'

# Next.js

This guide will walk you through creating your first Tauri app using the React framework [Next.js].

<Intro />

Here's a preview of what we will be building:

![Application Preview](/img/guides/getting-started/setup/next-js/next-js-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Application Preview](/img/guides/getting-started/setup/next-js/next-js-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Create the Frontend

[Next.js] is a React Framework that comes with both Server-Side Rendering (SSR) and Static-Site Generation (SSG) capabilities. To make Next.js work with Tauri we are going to use the SSG mode since it generates only static files that can be included in the final binary.

Next.js comes with a scaffolding utility similar to [`create-tauri-app`] that can quickly setup a new project from many pre-defined templates.
For this guide, we will use the TypeScript template to create a simple project.

<Tabs groupId="package-manager">
  <TabItem value="npm">

```shell
npx create-next-app@latest --use-npm --typescript
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Yarn">

```shell
yarn create next-app --typescript
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="pnpm">

```shell
pnpm create next-app --use-pnpm --typescript
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

1. _Project name_  
   This will be the name of your project. It corresponds to the name of the folder this utility will create but has otherwise no effect on your app. You can use any name you want here.

2. _Experimental `app/` directory_  
   Next.js will ask you if you want to try the new and experimental `app/` directory.
   > Next.js 23.3.0 now supports static exports with `next export`.

When starting or building the frontend, Next.js will look for a config file named `next.config.js` inside the project root.
We want to customize this file to get the best compatibility with Tauri.

Update the file with the following content:

```typescript title=next.config.js
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */

const nextConfig = {
  reactStrictMode: true,
  // Note: This feature is required to use NextJS Image in SSG mode.
  // See https://nextjs.org/docs/messages/export-image-api for different workarounds.
  images: {
    unoptimized: true,
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

To be able to build in production we must add a `next export` command in `package.json`.
This will produce a static HTML/JavaScript version of your Next.js application in the `out` folder.
We'll also add the `tauri` command to `package.json`.

Your `package.json` should look like this:

```json title=package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev",
    "build": "next build",
    "export": "next export",
    "start": "next start",
    "tauri": "tauri",
    "lint": "next lint"
  },
```

## Next.js in SSG mode

The "benefit" of using SSG mode is pre-rendered React code in static HTML/JavaScript. This means your page can load faster.
React doesn't have to render the HTML on the client-side but will hydrate it on the first load if needed.
The "downside" is that we cannot use `getServerSideProps` or use any type of "data fetching" for rendering our page for a request.

:::tip

You can use `getStaticProps` to generate HTML/JavaScript pages at build time. Since it is executed in the Node.js context, calling the Tauri api won't work. You can learn more about Next.js SSG in the [official documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/pages#static-generation-recommended).

:::

## Create the Rust Project

<TauriInit
  destDirExplination={{ __html: 'Use <code>../out</code> for this value.' }}
  devPathExplination={{
    __html: 'Use <code>http://localhost:3000</code> for this value.',
  }}
  beforeBuildCommandExplination={{
    __html: 'Use <code>npm run build && npm run export</code> for this value.',
  }}
  beforeDevCommandExplination={{
    __html: 'Use <code>npm run dev</code> for this value.',
  }}
/>

Now that we have scaffolded our frontend and initialized the Rust project you're almost ready to run your app. Your `tauri.conf.json` file should look something like this:

```json title=src-tauri/tauri.conf.json
{
  "build": {
    "beforeBuildCommand": "npm run build && npm run export",
    "beforeDevCommand": "npm run dev",
    "devPath": "http://localhost:3000",
    "distDir": "../out"
  },
```

And that's it! Now you can run the following command in your terminal to start a development build of your app:

<Command name="dev" />

![Application Window](/img/guides/getting-started/setup/next-js/next-js-dev-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Application Window](/img/guides/getting-started/setup/next-js/next-js-dev-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Invoke Commands

<Commands />

To call our newly created command we will use the [`@tauri-apps/api`] JavaScript library. It provides access to core functionality such as window manipulation, the filesystem, and more through convenient JavaScript abstractions. You can install it using your favorite JavaScript package manager:

<InstallTauriApi />

With the library installed, you can modify your `pages/index.tsx` file to call the Command:

```typescript title=pages/index.tsx
import { invoke } from '@tauri-apps/api/tauri'

// Note: When working with Next.js in development you have 2 execution contexts:
// - The server (nodejs), where Tauri cannot be reached, because the current context is inside of nodejs.
// - The client (webview), where it is possible to interact with the Tauri rust backend.
// To check if we are currently executing in the client context, we can check the type of the window object;
const isClient = typeof window !== 'undefined'

// Now we can call our Command!
// Right-click on the application background and open the developer tools.
// You will see "Hello, World!" printed in the console.
isClient &&
  invoke('greet', { name: 'World' }).then(console.log).catch(console.error)
```

A better approach would be to use Tauri calls in `componentDidMount` or `useEffect` that are only run on the client-side by [Next.js].

So to make it cleaner we should rewrite it like this:

```typescript title=pages/index.tsx
import { invoke } from "@tauri-apps/api/tauri"

const Home: NextPage = () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    invoke('greet', { name: 'World' })
    .then(console.log)
    .catch(console.error)
  }, []);
```

:::tip

If you want to know more about the communication between Rust and JavaScript, please read the Tauri [Inter-Process Communication][inter-process-communication] guide.

:::

<!-- TODO: Show how you can add this and screenshots of what it looks like -->

[next.js]: https://nextjs.org
[cargo]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/
[typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org
[prerequisites]: ../prerequisites.md
[`@tauri-apps/api`]: ../../../api/js/
[inter-process-communication]: ../../../references/architecture/inter-process-communication/readme.md
[`create-tauri-app`]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/create-tauri-app
