docs/guides/getting-started/setup/vite.mdx, before:

---
description: Build a Tauri app using Vite as the frontend build tool
pagination_next: guides/development/development-cycle
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_custom_props:
  doc_card_image: /img/guides/getting-started/setup/vite.svg
---

import TauriInit from './_fragments/_tauri-init.mdx'
import Commands from './_fragments/_commands.mdx'
import Intro from './_fragments/_intro.mdx'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Command, { InstallTauriApi } from '@theme/Command'

# Vite

This guide will walk you through creating your first Tauri app using the frontend build tool [Vite].

<Intro />

Here's a preview of what we will be building:

![Application Preview](./assets/vite/vite-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Application Preview](./assets/vite/vite-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Create the Frontend

[Vite] is a frontend bundler and build tool meaning it provides various quality-of-life features such as _Hot Module Reloading_ (HMR) during development, but it also converts your source code into optimized HTML, CSS and JavaScript when building for production. We recommend Vite for it's speed, easy configurability and [large ecosystem of plugins][awesome-vite].

Vite comes with a scaffolding utility similar to `create-tauri-app` that can quickly setup a new project from a number of pre-defined templates. You can choose from many frontend frameworks like React, Svelte or Vue. For this guide we will select the `vanilla-ts` template to create a simple project _without_ any frontend framework.

<Tabs groupId="package-manager">
  <TabItem value="npm">

```shell
npm create vite@latest
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="Yarn">

```shell
yarn create vite
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="pnpm">

```shell
pnpm create vite
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

1. _Project name_  
   This will be the name of your JavaScript project. Corresponds to the name of the folder this utility will create but has otherwise no effect on your app. You can use any name you want here.

2. _Select a framework_  
   If you plan on using a frontend framework later, this is where you can select it. For this guide, we assume you choose `vanilla`.

3. _Select a variant_  
   Vite offers [TypeScript] and vanilla JavaScript variants for all templates, and you can select the variant here. We **strongly** recommend TypeScript as it helps you write more secure, maintainable code faster and more efficiently. For this guide, we assume you choose `vanilla-ts`.

When starting the frontend via the `vite` command, Vite will look for a config file named `vite.config.ts` inside the project root. We want to customize this file to get the best compatibility with Tauri. If it is not created by the scaffolding above (such as if you're using vanilla JavaScript), you may need to create the `vite.config.ts` file in the root directory of the project.

Update the file with the following content:

```typescript title=vite.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'

export default defineConfig({
  // prevent vite from obscuring rust errors
  clearScreen: false,
  // Tauri expects a fixed port, fail if that port is not available
  server: {
    strictPort: true,
  },
  // to make use of `TAURI_PLATFORM`, `TAURI_ARCH`, `TAURI_FAMILY`,
  // `TAURI_PLATFORM_VERSION`, `TAURI_PLATFORM_TYPE` and `TAURI_DEBUG`
  // env variables
  envPrefix: ['VITE_', 'TAURI_'],
  build: {
    // Tauri supports es2021
    target: ['es2021', 'chrome100', 'safari13'],
    // don't minify for debug builds
    minify: !process.env.TAURI_DEBUG ? 'esbuild' : false,
    // produce sourcemaps for debug builds
    sourcemap: !!process.env.TAURI_DEBUG,
  },
})
```

## Create the Rust Project

<TauriInit
  destDirExplination={{
    __html: 'Use <code>../dist</code> for this value.',
  }}
  devPathExplination={{
    __html: 'Use <code>http://localhost:5173</code> for this value.',
  }}
  beforeDevCommandExplination={{
    __html:
      'Use <code>npm run dev</code> (be sure to adapt to use your package manager of choice).',
  }}
  beforeBuildCommandExplination={{
    __html:
      'Use <code>npm run build</code> (be sure to adapt to use your package manager of choice).',
  }}
/>

Now that we have scaffolded our frontend and initialized the Rust project the created `tauri.conf.json` file should look like this:

```json title=src-tauri/tauri.conf.json
{
  "build": {
    // This command will execute when you run `tauri build`.
    "beforeBuildCommand": "npm run build",
    // This command will execute when you run `tauri dev`
    "beforeDevCommand": "npm run dev",
    "devPath": "http://localhost:5173",
    "distDir": "../dist"
  },
```

And that's it! Now you can run the following command in your terminal to start a development build of your app:

<Command name="dev" />

![Application Window](./assets/vite/vite-dev-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Application Window](./assets/vite/vite-dev-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Invoke Commands

<Commands />

To call our newly created command we will use the [`@tauri-apps/api`] JavaScript library. It provides access to core functionality such as windows, the filesystem, and more through convenient JavaScript abstractions. You can install it using your favorite JavaScript package manager:

<InstallTauriApi />

With the library installed, you can modify your `main.ts` file to call the Command:

```typescript title=src/main.ts
import { invoke } from '@tauri-apps/api'

// now we can call our Command!
// Right-click the application background and open the developer tools.
// You will see "Hello, World!" printed in the console!
invoke('greet', { name: 'World' })
  // `invoke` returns a Promise
  .then((response) => console.log(response))
```

:::tip

If you want to know more about the communication between Rust and JavaScript, please read the Tauri [Inter-Process Communication][inter-process-communication] guide.

:::

[vite]: https://vitejs.dev
[cargo]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/
[typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org
[prerequisites]: ../prerequisites.md
[awesome-vite]: https://github.com/vitejs/awesome-vite#plugins
[`@tauri-apps/api`]: ../../../api/js/
[inter-process-communication]: ../../../references/architecture/inter-process-communication/readme.md

Commit message:

Add info about config plugins and scripts (#894)
* Add info about config plugins and scripts

* update from cr

* Add note about scripts section in npm install tab

Co-authored-by: FabianLars <fabianlars@fabianlars.de>

docs/guides/getting-started/setup/vite.mdx, after:

---
description: Build a Tauri app using Vite as the frontend build tool
pagination_next: guides/development/development-cycle
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_custom_props:
  doc_card_image: /img/guides/getting-started/setup/vite.svg
---

import TauriInit from './_fragments/_tauri-init.mdx'
import Commands from './_fragments/_commands.mdx'
import Intro from './_fragments/_intro.mdx'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Command, { InstallTauriApi } from '@theme/Command'

# Vite

This guide will walk you through creating your first Tauri app using the frontend build tool [Vite].

<Intro />

Here's a preview of what we will be building:

![Application Preview](./assets/vite/vite-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Application Preview](./assets/vite/vite-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Create the Frontend

[Vite] is a frontend bundler and build tool meaning it provides various quality-of-life features such as _Hot Module Reloading_ (HMR) during development, but it also converts your source code into optimized HTML, CSS and JavaScript when building for production. We recommend Vite for it's speed, easy configurability and [large ecosystem of plugins][awesome-vite].

Vite comes with a scaffolding utility similar to `create-tauri-app` that can quickly setup a new project from a number of pre-defined templates. You can choose from many frontend frameworks like React, Svelte or Vue. For this guide we will select the `vanilla-ts` template to create a simple project _without_ any frontend framework.

<Tabs groupId="package-manager">
  <TabItem value="npm">

```shell
npm create vite@latest
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="Yarn">

```shell
yarn create vite
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="pnpm">

```shell
pnpm create vite
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

1. _Project name_  
   This will be the name of your JavaScript project. Corresponds to the name of the folder this utility will create but has otherwise no effect on your app. You can use any name you want here.

2. _Select a framework_  
   If you plan on using a frontend framework later, this is where you can select it. For this guide, we assume you choose `vanilla`.

3. _Select a variant_  
   Vite offers [TypeScript] and vanilla JavaScript variants for all templates, and you can select the variant here. We **strongly** recommend TypeScript as it helps you write more secure, maintainable code faster and more efficiently. For this guide, we assume you choose `vanilla-ts`.

When starting the frontend via the `vite` command, Vite will look for a config file named `vite.config.ts` inside the project root. We want to customize this file to get the best compatibility with Tauri. If it is not created by the scaffolding above (such as if you're using vanilla JavaScript), you may need to create the `vite.config.ts` file in the root directory of the project.

Update the file with the following content:

```typescript title=vite.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'

export default defineConfig({
  // prevent vite from obscuring rust errors
  clearScreen: false,
  // Tauri expects a fixed port, fail if that port is not available
  server: {
    strictPort: true,
  },
  // to make use of `TAURI_PLATFORM`, `TAURI_ARCH`, `TAURI_FAMILY`,
  // `TAURI_PLATFORM_VERSION`, `TAURI_PLATFORM_TYPE` and `TAURI_DEBUG`
  // env variables
  envPrefix: ['VITE_', 'TAURI_'],
  build: {
    // Tauri supports es2021
    target: ['es2021', 'chrome100', 'safari13'],
    // don't minify for debug builds
    minify: !process.env.TAURI_DEBUG ? 'esbuild' : false,
    // produce sourcemaps for debug builds
    sourcemap: !!process.env.TAURI_DEBUG,
  },
})
```

:::info

Note that if you are not using vanilla JavaScript, you must keep the framework-specific plugins that were already in this file.

:::

## Create the Rust Project

<TauriInit
  destDirExplination={{
    __html: 'Use <code>../dist</code> for this value.',
  }}
  devPathExplination={{
    __html: 'Use <code>http://localhost:5173</code> for this value.',
  }}
  beforeDevCommandExplination={{
    __html:
      'Use <code>npm run dev</code> (be sure to adapt to use your package manager of choice).',
  }}
  beforeBuildCommandExplination={{
    __html:
      'Use <code>npm run build</code> (be sure to adapt to use your package manager of choice).',
  }}
/>

Now that we have scaffolded our frontend and initialized the Rust project the created `tauri.conf.json` file should look like this:

```json title=src-tauri/tauri.conf.json
{
  "build": {
    // This command will execute when you run `tauri build`.
    "beforeBuildCommand": "npm run build",
    // This command will execute when you run `tauri dev`
    "beforeDevCommand": "npm run dev",
    "devPath": "http://localhost:5173",
    "distDir": "../dist"
  },
```

And that's it! Now you can run the following command in your terminal to start a development build of your app:

<Command name="dev" />

![Application Window](./assets/vite/vite-dev-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Application Window](./assets/vite/vite-dev-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Invoke Commands

<Commands />

To call our newly created command we will use the [`@tauri-apps/api`] JavaScript library. It provides access to core functionality such as windows, the filesystem, and more through convenient JavaScript abstractions. You can install it using your favorite JavaScript package manager:

<InstallTauriApi />

With the library installed, you can modify your `main.ts` file to call the Command:

```typescript title=src/main.ts
import { invoke } from '@tauri-apps/api'

// now we can call our Command!
// Right-click the application background and open the developer tools.
// You will see "Hello, World!" printed in the console!
invoke('greet', { name: 'World' })
  // `invoke` returns a Promise
  .then((response) => console.log(response))
```

:::tip

If you want to know more about the communication between Rust and JavaScript, please read the Tauri [Inter-Process Communication][inter-process-communication] guide.

:::

[vite]: https://vitejs.dev
[cargo]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/
[typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org
[prerequisites]: ../prerequisites.md
[awesome-vite]: https://github.com/vitejs/awesome-vite#plugins
[`@tauri-apps/api`]: ../../../api/js/
[inter-process-communication]: ../../../references/architecture/inter-process-communication/readme.md
