docs/en/api/js/modules/notification.md, before:

---
title: "Module: notification"
sidebar_label: "notification"
custom_edit_url: null
hide_title: true
---

# Module: notification

Send notifications to your user. Can also be used with the Notification Web API.

## Table of contents

### Interfaces

- [Options](../interfaces/notification.options.md)

## Type aliases

### Permission

Ƭ **Permission**: *granted* \| *denied* \| *default*

Possible permission values.

Defined in: [notification.ts:25](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/a68b4ee8/tooling/api/src/notification.ts#L25)

## Functions

### isPermissionGranted

▸ **isPermissionGranted**(): *Promise*<boolean \| *null*\>

Checks if the permission to send notifications is granted.

**Returns:** *Promise*<boolean \| *null*\>

Defined in: [notification.ts:32](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/a68b4ee8/tooling/api/src/notification.ts#L32)

___

### requestPermission

▸ **requestPermission**(): *Promise*<[*Permission*](notification.md#permission)\>

Requests the permission to send notifications.

**Returns:** *Promise*<[*Permission*](notification.md#permission)\>

A promise resolving to whether the user granted the permission or not.

Defined in: [notification.ts:49](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/a68b4ee8/tooling/api/src/notification.ts#L49)

___

### sendNotification

▸ **sendNotification**(`options`: [*Options*](../interfaces/notification.options.md) \| *string*): *void*

Sends a notification to the user.

#### Parameters:

Name | Type | Description |
:------ | :------ | :------ |
`options` | [*Options*](../interfaces/notification.options.md) \| *string* | Notification options.    |

**Returns:** *void*

Defined in: [notification.ts:58](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/a68b4ee8/tooling/api/src/notification.ts#L58)

Commit message:

Moving main docs to core repo (#228)
* feat: Added sidebars

* warning: Added detached typedoc files

* feat: Added version file

* fix: Trim on version to avoid linebreaks

* fix: Adapting to CI

* chore(docs): Update Rust & TS docs (#230)

Co-authored-by: Laegel <Laegel@users.noreply.github.com>

* chore(docs): Update Rust & TS docs (#231)

Co-authored-by: Laegel <Laegel@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: tauri <67875262+tauri-bot@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Laegel <Laegel@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/en/api/js/modules/notification.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "notification"
custom_edit_url: null
hide_title: true
---

# Module: notification

Send notifications to your user. Can also be used with the Notification Web API.

This package is also accessible with `window.__TAURI__.notification` when `tauri.conf.json > build > withGlobalTauri` is set to true.

The APIs must be allowlisted on `tauri.conf.json`:
```json
{
  "tauri": {
    "allowlist": {
      "notification": {
        "all": true // enable all notification APIs
      }
    }
  }
}
```
It is recommended to allowlist only the APIs you use for optimal bundle size and security.

## Table of contents

### Interfaces

- [Options](../interfaces/notification.options.md)

## Type aliases

### Permission

Ƭ **Permission**: *granted* \| *denied* \| *default*

Possible permission values.

Defined in: [notification.ts:41](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/3afef190/tooling/api/src/notification.ts#L41)

## Functions

### isPermissionGranted

▸ **isPermissionGranted**(): *Promise*<boolean \| *null*\>

Checks if the permission to send notifications is granted.

**Returns:** *Promise*<boolean \| *null*\>

Defined in: [notification.ts:48](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/3afef190/tooling/api/src/notification.ts#L48)

___

### requestPermission

▸ **requestPermission**(): *Promise*<[*Permission*](notification.md#permission)\>

Requests the permission to send notifications.

**Returns:** *Promise*<[*Permission*](notification.md#permission)\>

A promise resolving to whether the user granted the permission or not.

Defined in: [notification.ts:65](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/3afef190/tooling/api/src/notification.ts#L65)

___

### sendNotification

▸ **sendNotification**(`options`: [*Options*](../interfaces/notification.options.md) \| *string*): *void*

Sends a notification to the user.

#### Parameters:

Name | Type | Description |
:------ | :------ | :------ |
`options` | [*Options*](../interfaces/notification.options.md) \| *string* | Notification options.    |

**Returns:** *void*

Defined in: [notification.ts:74](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/blob/3afef190/tooling/api/src/notification.ts#L74)
