docs/getting-started/setup-windows.md, before:

---
id: setup-windows
title: 'Setup for Windows'
sidebar_label: Setup for Windows
---

This setup is only needed for development. Consumers of Tauri apps will not have to do any of this.

## Dependencies

Tauri is a polyglot system, and as such requires a good deal of tooling.

### System Dependencies:

First you should [download](https://aka.ms/buildtools) and install Visual Studio MSBuild Tools and C++ build tools.

<div className="alert alert--info" role="alert">
This is a big download (over 1GB) and takes the most time, so go grab a :coffee:
</div><br/>

<div className="alert alert--warning" role="alert">
Be sure you don't have the 2017 version of the build tools installed as well. There are reports of `tauri build` not working in such a configuration.
</div><br/>

Next, you will need to install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/). We recommend installing it by downloading and installing the latest [nvm-windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows/releases) for features such as version management.

Then run the following from an Administrative PowerShell and press Y when prompted:

```powershell
# BE SURE YOU ARE IN AN ADMINISTRATIVE PowerShell!
nvm install 12.16.0
nvm use 12.16.0
Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; iwr -useb get.scoop.sh | iex
scoop install yarn
```

This will install the most recent version of nodejs\* with nvm, scoop, and yarn.

<div className="alert alert--info" role="alert">
*Most recent nodejs as of this post
Here you can find help for: <a href="https://scoop.sh/" target="_blank">scoop</a>, <a href="https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows" target="_blank">nvm</a>, <a href="https://yarnpkg.com/" target="_blank">yarn</a>
</div>

##### Optional If You Need npm

<div className="alert alert--info" role="alert">
The npm installation from the steps above will require an administrative shell to work. If you need npm in a regular shell, you can simply execute the following command:
</div>
<br/>

```powershell
# DO NOT EXECUTE FROM ADMINISTRATIVE PowerShell!
yarn global add npm
```

### Rustc and Cargo Package Manager

Now you will need to install [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/). The easiest way to do this is to use [rustup](https://rustup.rs/), the official installer.

[64-bit download link](https://win.rustup.rs/x86_64)

[32-bit download link](https://win.rustup.rs/i686)

Download and install the proper variant for your computer's architecture. After, run the following command in a terminal.

```powershell
rustup update stable
```

### Enable Loopback

Microsoft disables the loopback interface - you need to whitelist it if you intend to use the dev-server:

Open an administrative console and enter:

```powershell
CheckNetIsolation.exe LoopbackExempt -a -n="Microsoft.Win32WebViewHost_cw5n1h2txyewy"
```

<div className="alert alert--info" role="alert">
There are reports that you have to restart your computer after running this command, so if it isn't working for you, try that!
</div>
<br/>

### Devtools

If you want to debug the front-end you will have to download [Microsoft Edge Devtools](https://www.microsoft.com/store/p/microsoft-edge-devtools-preview/9mzbfrmz0mnj) from the Microsoft store.

This will allow you to attach to a running instance of you're Tauri project!
If you need help take a look at the [devtools-guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide).

## Tauri Bundler

After you have installed Rust and other required dependencies, it is wise to restart your terminal before continuing.

Install Tauri bundler through Cargo:

```sh
cargo install tauri-bundler --force
```

## Continue

Now that you have set up the Windows-specific dependencies for Tauri, continue following the [getting started guide](intro#initializing-an-app).

Commit message:

Feat/recipes (#51)
* feat(components)

* feat(docs): WIP recipes

* fix: SSR fix

* fix(docs): Changed Rust paths in 'see more'

* feat(docs): Added development section

* feat(docs): Added development instructions

* feat(docs): Added debug instructions

* feat(docs): Added publishing and a sequence hint in sidebar

* chore(cleanFiles): Removed reworked files

* fix: Restored codeblock title

* fix: Added codeblock title

* feat(docs): Added bundler section

* fix: Changed 'npm run' for 'npx'

* fix(docs): Added missing --save-dev

* fix: Now using alert component & fixed some types

* fix: Changed --save-dev for --save

* chore: Moved 'development' files

* fix: Changed relative for absolute links

* fix(docs): Various minor modifications applied

* fix(wording)

* fix(wording)

docs/getting-started/setup-windows.md, after:

---
title: Setup for Windows
---

This setup is only needed for development. Consumers of Tauri apps will not have to do any of this.

## Dependencies

Tauri is a polyglot system, and as such requires a good deal of tooling.

### System Dependencies:

First you should [download](https://aka.ms/buildtools) and install Visual Studio MSBuild Tools and C++ build tools.

<div className="alert alert--info" role="alert">
This is a big download (over 1GB) and takes the most time, so go grab a :coffee:
</div><br/>

<div className="alert alert--warning" role="alert">
Be sure you don't have the 2017 version of the build tools installed as well. There are reports of `tauri build` not working in such a configuration.
</div><br/>

Next, you will need to install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/). We recommend installing it by downloading and installing the latest [nvm-windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows/releases) for features such as version management.

Then run the following from an Administrative PowerShell and press Y when prompted:

```powershell
# BE SURE YOU ARE IN AN ADMINISTRATIVE PowerShell!
nvm install 12.16.0
nvm use 12.16.0
Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; iwr -useb get.scoop.sh | iex
scoop install yarn
```

This will install the most recent version of nodejs\* with nvm, scoop, and yarn.

<div className="alert alert--info" role="alert">
*Most recent nodejs as of this post
Here you can find help for: <a href="https://scoop.sh/" target="_blank">scoop</a>, <a href="https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows" target="_blank">nvm</a>, <a href="https://yarnpkg.com/" target="_blank">yarn</a>
</div>

##### Optional If You Need npm

<div className="alert alert--info" role="alert">
The npm installation from the steps above will require an administrative shell to work. If you need npm in a regular shell, you can simply execute the following command:
</div>
<br/>

```powershell
# DO NOT EXECUTE FROM ADMINISTRATIVE PowerShell!
yarn global add npm
```

### Rustc and Cargo Package Manager

Now you will need to install [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/). The easiest way to do this is to use [rustup](https://rustup.rs/), the official installer.

[64-bit download link](https://win.rustup.rs/x86_64)

[32-bit download link](https://win.rustup.rs/i686)

Download and install the proper variant for your computer's architecture. After, run the following command in a terminal.

```powershell
rustup update stable
```

### Enable Loopback

Microsoft disables the loopback interface - you need to whitelist it if you intend to use the dev-server:

Open an administrative console and enter:

```powershell
CheckNetIsolation.exe LoopbackExempt -a -n="Microsoft.Win32WebViewHost_cw5n1h2txyewy"
```

<div className="alert alert--info" role="alert">
There are reports that you have to restart your computer after running this command, so if it isn't working for you, try that!
</div>
<br/>

### Devtools

If you want to debug the front-end you will have to download [Microsoft Edge Devtools](https://www.microsoft.com/store/p/microsoft-edge-devtools-preview/9mzbfrmz0mnj) from the Microsoft store.

This will allow you to attach to a running instance of your Tauri project!
If you need help take a look at the [devtools-guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide).

## Tauri Bundler

After you have installed Rust and other required dependencies, it is wise to restart your terminal before continuing.

Install Tauri bundler through Cargo:

```sh
cargo install tauri-bundler --force
```

## Continue

Now that you have set up the Windows-specific dependencies for Tauri, learn how to [add Tauri to your project](/docs/usage/development/integration).
