blog/2022-09-15-tauri-1.1.mdx, before:

---
authors: [lucasfernog]
image: ./tauri_1_1_images/header.png
description: After 113 pull requests and nearly two months of work, the Tauri team is pleased to announce the 1.1.0 release.
---

# Announcing Tauri 1.1.0

![Tauri 1.0 Launch Hero Image](./tauri_1_1_images/header.png)

After 113 pull requests and nearly two months of work, the Tauri team is pleased to announce the 1.1.0 release. The changes were internally audited and no security issues were found.

You can update the NPM dependencies with:

```
$ npm update
```

To update the Cargo dependencies, run the following in the `src-tauri` folder:

```
$ cargo update
```

## What's in 1.1.0

### Security patch

This release includes a patch for a security vulnerability reported by [@martin-ocasek](https://github.com/martin-ocasek). The `readDir` function was able to return entries outside the configured scope when a symlink is found. The patch is also available in 1.0.6. See [the issue](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/4882) for more details.

### Icon generation

We have been recommending using the [tauricon](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauricon) project to generate icons for your Tauri application using a single source PNG. Several issues have been reported, and we decided to `Rewrite It In Rust` to enhance its stability. This allowed us to move this functionality to the main Tauri CLI, so now you can use the `tauri icon` command.

### cargo-binstall support for the Tauri CLI

The Tauri CLI can now be installed using [cargo-binstall](https://github.com/cargo-bins/cargo-binstall), a mechanism to download and install prebuilt Rust binaries. The binaries are available for the main targets and can be installed with:

```
$ cargo install cargo-binstall
$ cargo binstall tauri-cli --pkg-url "{ repo }/releases/download/cli.rs-v{ version }/cargo-tauri-{ target }.{ archive-format }"
$ cargo tauri dev # run any tauri command!
```

### Create system trays at runtime

The system tray APIs previously only available in `tauri::Builder::system_tray` function can now be used at runtime, giving you control over its lifetime and even create multiple trays.

Here's a quick example on how to use it:

```rust
use tauri::{Builder, CustomMenuItem, SystemTray, SystemTrayEvent, SystemTrayMenu};
Builder::default()
    .setup(|app| {
        let handle = app.handle();
        SystemTray::new()
            .with_id("main")
            .with_menu(
                SystemTrayMenu::new().add_item(CustomMenuItem::new("quit", "Quit"))
            )
            .on_event(move |event| {
                let tray_handle = handle.tray_handle_by_id("main").unwrap();
                if let SystemTrayEvent::MenuItemClick { id, .. } = event {
                    if id == "quit" {
                        tray_handle.destroy().unwrap();
                    }
                }
            })
    });
```

### TOML configuration support

In the 1.0 releases Tauri supports the `JSON` configuration format by default, and `JSON5` when the `config-json5` Cargo feature is enabled, meaning the following configurations are valid:

```json
tauri.conf.json:
{
  "build": {
      "devPath": "http://localhost:8000",
      "distDir": "../dist"
  }
}
```

```json5
tauri.conf.json5:
{
  build: {
      // devServer URL (comments are allowed!)
      devPath": http://localhost:8000,
      distDir": ../dist
  }
}
```

The 1.1.0 release includes TOML support behind the `config-toml` Cargo feature. Now you can define your Tauri configuration in a `Tauri.toml` file:

```toml
[build]
dev-path = "http://localhost:8000"
dist-dir = "../dist"
```

### Dependency updates

This release includes some dependency updates that must be handled in your app if you implement platform-specific functionalities using these crates. The most important updates are:

- `windows` updated to 0.39.0
- `webview2-com` updated to 0.19.1
- `raw-window-handle` updated to 0.5.0

Make sure you also update plugins such as `window-vibrancy` and `window-shadows` to latest.

## Contributors to 1.1.0

The Tauri team thanks the following contributors for the 1.1.0 release:

- [Berrysoft](https://github.com/Berrysoft)
- [keraf](https://github.com/keraf)
- [jsoref](https://github.com/jsoref)
- [A-kirami](https://github.com/A-kirami)
- [olivierlemasle](https://github.com/olivierlemasle)
- [mateo-gallardo](https://github.com/mateo-gallardo)
- [rockerBOO](https://github.com/rockerBOO)
- [Flecart](https://github.com/Flecart)
- [brian14708](https://github.com/brian14708)
- [koriwi](https://github.com/koriwi)
- [paul-soporan](https://github.com/paul-soporan)
- [shniubobo](https://github.com/shniubobo)
- [horochx](https://github.com/horochx)
- [RubenKelevra](https://github.com/RubenKelevra)
- [LIMPIX31](https://github.com/LIMPIX31)
- [AxlLind](https://github.com/AxlLind)

# Other changes

There is a lot of smaller changes and bug fixes in this release. You can see a summary of the release notes in the following sections. The complete changelog can be found in the [releases page](https://tauri.app/releases).

## New

- `tauri icon` command
- `exists` API in the `fs` module
- Option to disable the dev watcher with `tauri dev --no-watch`
- Automatically use any `.taurignore` file as ignore rules for dev watcher and app path finder
- Add support to cargo-binstall for the Tauri CLI
- TOML configuration format (Tauri.toml)
- Theme APIs on Linux
- Create system trays at runtime
- `beforeBundleCommand` configuration
- `beforeDevCommand` and `beforeBuildCommand` now has an option to configure the current working directory
- `api::Command::encoding` method to set the stdout/stderr encoding
- Added `native-tls-vendored` and `reqwest-native-tls-vendored` Cargo features to compile and statically link to a vendored copy of OpenSSL on Linux
- Implement `raw_window_handle::HasRawDisplayHandle` for `App` and `AppHandle`

## Fixes

- CLI parser ignoring inner subcommands.
- Updater breaking the app icon in Finder.
- Fix root of codegen output when using the `CodegenContext` API.

## Security

- Fix `fs.readDir` recursive option reading symlinked directories that are not allowed by the scope

## Improvements

- Validate updater signature against configured public key
- Return an error if a sidecar is configured with the same file name as the application.
- Keep the created windows in a RefCell instead of a Mutex, avoiding deadlocks
- Prompt for `beforeDevCommand` and `beforeBuildCommand` in `tauri init`.
- Use `cargo metadata` to detect the workspace root and target directory.
- Allow configuring the `before_dev_command` to force the CLI to wait for the command to finish before proceeding.
- Avoid re-downloading AppImage build tools on every build.
- Retain command line arguments in `api::process::restart`
- Enhance the dialog style on Windows via the manifest dependency `Microsoft.Windows.Common-Controls v6.0.0.0`.
- Rerun codegen if assets or icons change
- Only rewrite temporary icon files when the content change, avoid needless rebuilds.

Commit message:

add note on binstall command

blog/2022-09-15-tauri-1.1.mdx, after:

---
authors: [lucasfernog]
image: ./tauri_1_1_images/header.png
description: After 113 pull requests and nearly two months of work, the Tauri team is pleased to announce the 1.1.0 release.
---

# Announcing Tauri 1.1.0

![Tauri 1.0 Launch Hero Image](./tauri_1_1_images/header.png)

After 113 pull requests and nearly two months of work, the Tauri team is pleased to announce the 1.1.0 release. The changes were internally audited and no security issues were found.

You can update the NPM dependencies with:

```
$ npm update
```

To update the Cargo dependencies, run the following in the `src-tauri` folder:

```
$ cargo update
```

## What's in 1.1.0

### Security patch

This release includes a patch for a security vulnerability reported by [@martin-ocasek](https://github.com/martin-ocasek). The `readDir` function was able to return entries outside the configured scope when a symlink is found. The patch is also available in 1.0.6. See [the issue](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/4882) for more details.

### Icon generation

We have been recommending using the [tauricon](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauricon) project to generate icons for your Tauri application using a single source PNG. Several issues have been reported, and we decided to `Rewrite It In Rust` to enhance its stability. This allowed us to move this functionality to the main Tauri CLI, so now you can use the `tauri icon` command.

### cargo-binstall support for the Tauri CLI

The Tauri CLI can now be installed using [cargo-binstall](https://github.com/cargo-bins/cargo-binstall), a mechanism to download and install prebuilt Rust binaries. The binaries are available for the main targets and can be installed with:

```
$ cargo install cargo-binstall
# in the next release, `$ cargo binstall tauri-cli` will be enough
$ cargo binstall tauri-cli --pkg-url "{ repo }/releases/download/cli.rs-v{ version }/cargo-tauri-{ target }.{ archive-format }"
$ cargo tauri dev # run any tauri command!
```

### Create system trays at runtime

The system tray APIs previously only available in `tauri::Builder::system_tray` function can now be used at runtime, giving you control over its lifetime and even create multiple trays.

Here's a quick example on how to use it:

```rust
use tauri::{Builder, CustomMenuItem, SystemTray, SystemTrayEvent, SystemTrayMenu};
Builder::default()
    .setup(|app| {
        let handle = app.handle();
        SystemTray::new()
            .with_id("main")
            .with_menu(
                SystemTrayMenu::new().add_item(CustomMenuItem::new("quit", "Quit"))
            )
            .on_event(move |event| {
                let tray_handle = handle.tray_handle_by_id("main").unwrap();
                if let SystemTrayEvent::MenuItemClick { id, .. } = event {
                    if id == "quit" {
                        tray_handle.destroy().unwrap();
                    }
                }
            })
    });
```

### TOML configuration support

In the 1.0 releases Tauri supports the `JSON` configuration format by default, and `JSON5` when the `config-json5` Cargo feature is enabled, meaning the following configurations are valid:

```json
tauri.conf.json:
{
  "build": {
      "devPath": "http://localhost:8000",
      "distDir": "../dist"
  }
}
```

```json5
tauri.conf.json5:
{
  build: {
      // devServer URL (comments are allowed!)
      devPath": http://localhost:8000,
      distDir": ../dist
  }
}
```

The 1.1.0 release includes TOML support behind the `config-toml` Cargo feature. Now you can define your Tauri configuration in a `Tauri.toml` file:

```toml
[build]
dev-path = "http://localhost:8000"
dist-dir = "../dist"
```

### Dependency updates

This release includes some dependency updates that must be handled in your app if you implement platform-specific functionalities using these crates. The most important updates are:

- `windows` updated to 0.39.0
- `webview2-com` updated to 0.19.1
- `raw-window-handle` updated to 0.5.0

Make sure you also update plugins such as `window-vibrancy` and `window-shadows` to latest.

## Contributors to 1.1.0

The Tauri team thanks the following contributors for the 1.1.0 release:

- [Berrysoft](https://github.com/Berrysoft)
- [keraf](https://github.com/keraf)
- [jsoref](https://github.com/jsoref)
- [A-kirami](https://github.com/A-kirami)
- [olivierlemasle](https://github.com/olivierlemasle)
- [mateo-gallardo](https://github.com/mateo-gallardo)
- [rockerBOO](https://github.com/rockerBOO)
- [Flecart](https://github.com/Flecart)
- [brian14708](https://github.com/brian14708)
- [koriwi](https://github.com/koriwi)
- [paul-soporan](https://github.com/paul-soporan)
- [shniubobo](https://github.com/shniubobo)
- [horochx](https://github.com/horochx)
- [RubenKelevra](https://github.com/RubenKelevra)
- [LIMPIX31](https://github.com/LIMPIX31)
- [AxlLind](https://github.com/AxlLind)

# Other changes

There is a lot of smaller changes and bug fixes in this release. You can see a summary of the release notes in the following sections. The complete changelog can be found in the [releases page](https://tauri.app/releases).

## New

- `tauri icon` command
- `exists` API in the `fs` module
- Option to disable the dev watcher with `tauri dev --no-watch`
- Automatically use any `.taurignore` file as ignore rules for dev watcher and app path finder
- Add support to cargo-binstall for the Tauri CLI
- TOML configuration format (Tauri.toml)
- Theme APIs on Linux
- Create system trays at runtime
- `beforeBundleCommand` configuration
- `beforeDevCommand` and `beforeBuildCommand` now has an option to configure the current working directory
- `api::Command::encoding` method to set the stdout/stderr encoding
- Added `native-tls-vendored` and `reqwest-native-tls-vendored` Cargo features to compile and statically link to a vendored copy of OpenSSL on Linux
- Implement `raw_window_handle::HasRawDisplayHandle` for `App` and `AppHandle`

## Fixes

- CLI parser ignoring inner subcommands.
- Updater breaking the app icon in Finder.
- Fix root of codegen output when using the `CodegenContext` API.

## Security

- Fix `fs.readDir` recursive option reading symlinked directories that are not allowed by the scope

## Improvements

- Validate updater signature against configured public key
- Return an error if a sidecar is configured with the same file name as the application.
- Keep the created windows in a RefCell instead of a Mutex, avoiding deadlocks
- Prompt for `beforeDevCommand` and `beforeBuildCommand` in `tauri init`.
- Use `cargo metadata` to detect the workspace root and target directory.
- Allow configuring the `before_dev_command` to force the CLI to wait for the command to finish before proceeding.
- Avoid re-downloading AppImage build tools on every build.
- Retain command line arguments in `api::process::restart`
- Enhance the dialog style on Windows via the manifest dependency `Microsoft.Windows.Common-Controls v6.0.0.0`.
- Rerun codegen if assets or icons change
- Only rewrite temporary icon files when the content change, avoid needless rebuilds.
