blog/2022-07-12-tauri-programme-turns-1-and-board-elections.mdx, before:

---
authors: [beanow]
description: The one year anniversary for Tauri becoming a programme within The Commons Conservancy is upcoming on the 16th of July!
---

# Tauri Programme Turns 1 and Board Elections

The one year anniversary for Tauri becoming a programme within [The Commons Conservancy][tcc-home] is upcoming on the 16th of July! On that anniversary, two of our Directors on the Tauri Board will be at the end of their first half-term. The Board will hold an election on the 15th of July to decide the Directors for the next two year term.

<!--truncate-->

The Tauri Board has a minimum of three, and a maximum of seven people. Right at the start we've had seven people come on board. Meaning we can't add any more people during this election. So if you're applying it means you'll compete with the two project founders for a seat on the Tauri Board.

Honestly those are big shoes to fill! So to avoid unnecessary disappointment, in this election we decided to add a requirement: _You must be currently part of a working group to apply as a candidate._

If you're still with me, then here are some additional details:

- Please notify the board _**before July 15th 00:00 UTC**_ if you would like to apply as a candidate.
- You can mention `@board` on Discord, or DM `Beanow#5887` if you want your application to be kept private within the Board.
- Optionally, you can include a short motivation for your application.
- If there are multiple candidates, the Tauri Board will vote for their preferred candidates.
- The Directors running for office again will have _**half a vote**_ deducted from votes in their favor (one for each consecutive term served).
- _**After voting on July 15th**_ we'll share the results.

All this is governed by our [statutes and core regulations][statutes-dracc] if you're interested in seeing the fine print.

We'll be back soon with an update.

[tcc-home]: https://commonsconservancy.org/ 'The Commons Conservancy'
[statutes-dracc]: https://dracc.commonsconservancy.org/0035/ 'Statutes of Tauri'

Commit message:

Update blog, include election results (#969)
* fix: Inline blogpost links

This solves an issue where the truncate feature would break links.

* Update blog, include election results

* Update 2022-07-12-tauri-programme-turns-1-and-board-elections.mdx

Co-authored-by: Fabian-Lars <fabianlars@fabianlars.de>

blog/2022-07-12-tauri-programme-turns-1-and-board-elections.mdx, after:

---
authors: [beanow]
description: The one year anniversary for Tauri becoming a programme within The Commons Conservancy is upcoming on the 16th of July!
---

# Tauri Programme Turns 1 and Board Elections

The one year anniversary for Tauri becoming a programme within [The Commons Conservancy](https://commonsconservancy.org/) is upcoming on the 16th of July! On that anniversary, two of our Directors on the Tauri Board will be at the end of their first half-term. The Board will hold an election on the 15th of July to decide the Directors for the next two year term.

<!--truncate-->

The Tauri Board has a minimum of three, and a maximum of seven people. Right at the start we've had seven people come on board. Meaning we can't add any more people during this election. So if you're applying it means you'll compete with the two project founders for a seat on the Tauri Board.

Honestly those are big shoes to fill! So to avoid unnecessary disappointment, in this election we decided to add a requirement: _You must be currently part of a working group to apply as a candidate._

If you're still with me, then here are some additional details:

- Please notify the board _**before July 15th 00:00 UTC**_ if you would like to apply as a candidate.
- You can mention `@board` on Discord, or DM `Beanow#5887` if you want your application to be kept private within the Board.
- Optionally, you can include a short motivation for your application.
- If there are multiple candidates, the Tauri Board will vote for their preferred candidates.
- The Directors running for office again will have _**half a vote**_ deducted from votes in their favor (one for each consecutive term served).
- _**After voting on July 15th**_ we'll share the results.

All this is governed by our [statutes and core regulations](https://dracc.commonsconservancy.org/0035/) if you're interested in seeing the fine print.

We'll be back soon with an update.

### Update: Election results

The results are in, so here is the reveal!

The existing Directors applied for another term and there were no additional applicants. Meaning no vote was necessary to select between candidates. For the Chair position Daniel ran as the only candidate.

The Tauri Board then voted unanimously in favor of the following:

1. The Board appoints Daniel and Lucas for an additional full term (2 years) as Board Directors, starting the 16th of July.
2. The Board appoints Daniel as Chairperson for the next term (1 year), starting the 16th of July.

Another election will be held around the same time July next year, now with extra time to apply and for the Board to vote. We'll announce the specifics in due time.
