docs/guides/features/system-tray.md, before:

# System Tray

Native application system tray.

### Setup

Configure the `systemTray` object on `tauri.conf.json`:

```json
{
  "tauri": {
    "systemTray": {
      "iconPath": "icons/icon.png",
      "iconAsTemplate": true
    }
  }
}
```

The `iconAsTemplate` is a boolean value that determines whether the image represents a [Template Image] on macOS.

#### Linux Setup

On Linux, you need to install one of `libayatana-appindicator` or `libappindicator3` packages.
Tauri determines which package to use at runtime, with `libayatana` being the preferred one if both are installed.

By default, the Debian package (`.deb` file) will add a dependency on `libayatana-appindicator3-1`. To create a Debian package targetting `libappindicator3`, set the `TAURI_TRAY` environment variable to `libappindicator3`.

The AppImage bundle automatically embeds the installed tray library, and you can also use the `TAURI_TRAY` environment variable to manually select it.

:::info

`libappindicator3` is unmaintained and does not exist on some distros like `debian11`, but `libayatana-appindicator` does not exist on older releases.

:::

### Creating a system tray

To create a native system tray, import the `SystemTray` type:

```rust
use tauri::SystemTray;
```

Initialize a new tray instance:

```rust
let tray = SystemTray::new();
```

### Configuring a system tray context menu

Optionally you can add a context menu that is visible when the tray icon is right clicked. Import the `SystemTrayMenu`, `SystemTrayMenuItem` and `CustomMenuItem` types:

```rust
use tauri::{CustomMenuItem, SystemTrayMenu, SystemTrayMenuItem};
```

Create the `SystemTrayMenu`:

```rust
// here `"quit".to_string()` defines the menu item id, and the second parameter is the menu item label.
let quit = CustomMenuItem::new("quit".to_string(), "Quit");
let hide = CustomMenuItem::new("hide".to_string(), "Hide");
let tray_menu = SystemTrayMenu::new()
  .add_item(quit)
  .add_native_item(SystemTrayMenuItem::Separator)
  .add_item(hide);
```

Add the tray menu to the `SystemTray` instance:

```rust
let tray = SystemTray::new().with_menu(tray_menu);
```

### Configure the app system tray

The created `SystemTray` instance can be set using the `system_tray` API on the `tauri::Builder` struct:

```rust
use tauri::{CustomMenuItem, SystemTray, SystemTrayMenu};

fn main() {
  let tray_menu = SystemTrayMenu::new(); // insert the menu items here
  let system_tray = SystemTray::new()
    .with_menu(tray_menu);
  tauri::Builder::default()
    .system_tray(system_tray)
    .run(tauri::generate_context!())
    .expect("error while running tauri application");
}
```

### Listening to system tray events

Each `CustomMenuItem` triggers an event when clicked.
Also, Tauri emits tray icon click events.
Use the `on_system_tray_event` API to handle them:

```rust
use tauri::{CustomMenuItem, SystemTray, SystemTrayMenu, SystemTrayEvent};
use tauri::Manager;

fn main() {
  let tray_menu = SystemTrayMenu::new(); // insert the menu items here
  tauri::Builder::default()
    .system_tray(SystemTray::new().with_menu(tray_menu))
    .on_system_tray_event(|app, event| match event {
      SystemTrayEvent::LeftClick {
        position: _,
        size: _,
        ..
      } => {
        println!("system tray received a left click");
      }
      SystemTrayEvent::RightClick {
        position: _,
        size: _,
        ..
      } => {
        println!("system tray received a right click");
      }
      SystemTrayEvent::DoubleClick {
        position: _,
        size: _,
        ..
      } => {
        println!("system tray received a double click");
      }
      SystemTrayEvent::MenuItemClick { id, .. } => {
        match id.as_str() {
          "quit" => {
            std::process::exit(0);
          }
          "hide" => {
            let window = app.get_window("main").unwrap();
            window.hide().unwrap();
          }
          _ => {}
        }
      }
      _ => {}
    })
    .run(tauri::generate_context!())
    .expect("error while running tauri application");
}
```

### Updating system tray

The `AppHandle` struct has a `tray_handle` method, which returns a handle to the system tray allowing updating tray icon and context menu items:

#### Updating context menu items

```rust
use tauri::{CustomMenuItem, SystemTray, SystemTrayMenu, SystemTrayEvent};
use tauri::Manager;

fn main() {
  let tray_menu = SystemTrayMenu::new(); // insert the menu items here
  tauri::Builder::default()
    .system_tray(SystemTray::new().with_menu(tray_menu))
    .on_system_tray_event(|app, event| match event {
      SystemTrayEvent::MenuItemClick { id, .. } => {
        // get a handle to the clicked menu item
        // note that `tray_handle` can be called anywhere,
        // just get a `AppHandle` instance with `app.handle()` on the setup hook
        // and move it to another function or thread
        let item_handle = app.tray_handle().get_item(&id);
        match id.as_str() {
          "hide" => {
            let window = app.get_window("main").unwrap();
            window.hide().unwrap();
            // you can also `set_selected`, `set_enabled` and `set_native_image` (macOS only).
            item_handle.set_title("Show").unwrap();
          }
          _ => {}
        }
      }
      _ => {}
    })
    .run(tauri::generate_context!())
    .expect("error while running tauri application");
}
```

#### Updating tray icon

Note that you need to add `icon-ico` or `icon-png` feature flag to the tauri dependency in your Cargo.toml in order to be able to use `Icon::Raw`

```rust
app.tray_handle().set_icon(tauri::Icon::Raw(include_bytes!("../path/to/myicon.ico").to_vec())).unwrap();
```

[template image]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsimage/1520017-template?language=objc
[libayatana-appindicator]: https://github.com/AyatanaIndicators/libayatana-appindicator

Commit message:

Mention prevent close API in docs
Adds a section to the `system-tray` feature page to describe how you can have an app that keeps running in the background.

docs/guides/features/system-tray.md, after:

# System Tray

Native application system tray.

### Setup

Configure the `systemTray` object on `tauri.conf.json`:

```json
{
  "tauri": {
    "systemTray": {
      "iconPath": "icons/icon.png",
      "iconAsTemplate": true
    }
  }
}
```

The `iconAsTemplate` is a boolean value that determines whether the image represents a [Template Image] on macOS.

#### Linux Setup

On Linux, you need to install one of `libayatana-appindicator` or `libappindicator3` packages.
Tauri determines which package to use at runtime, with `libayatana` being the preferred one if both are installed.

By default, the Debian package (`.deb` file) will add a dependency on `libayatana-appindicator3-1`. To create a Debian package targetting `libappindicator3`, set the `TAURI_TRAY` environment variable to `libappindicator3`.

The AppImage bundle automatically embeds the installed tray library, and you can also use the `TAURI_TRAY` environment variable to manually select it.

:::info

`libappindicator3` is unmaintained and does not exist on some distros like `debian11`, but `libayatana-appindicator` does not exist on older releases.

:::

### Creating a system tray

To create a native system tray, import the `SystemTray` type:

```rust
use tauri::SystemTray;
```

Initialize a new tray instance:

```rust
let tray = SystemTray::new();
```

### Configuring a system tray context menu

Optionally you can add a context menu that is visible when the tray icon is right clicked. Import the `SystemTrayMenu`, `SystemTrayMenuItem` and `CustomMenuItem` types:

```rust
use tauri::{CustomMenuItem, SystemTrayMenu, SystemTrayMenuItem};
```

Create the `SystemTrayMenu`:

```rust
// here `"quit".to_string()` defines the menu item id, and the second parameter is the menu item label.
let quit = CustomMenuItem::new("quit".to_string(), "Quit");
let hide = CustomMenuItem::new("hide".to_string(), "Hide");
let tray_menu = SystemTrayMenu::new()
  .add_item(quit)
  .add_native_item(SystemTrayMenuItem::Separator)
  .add_item(hide);
```

Add the tray menu to the `SystemTray` instance:

```rust
let tray = SystemTray::new().with_menu(tray_menu);
```

### Configure the app system tray

The created `SystemTray` instance can be set using the `system_tray` API on the `tauri::Builder` struct:

```rust
use tauri::{CustomMenuItem, SystemTray, SystemTrayMenu};

fn main() {
  let tray_menu = SystemTrayMenu::new(); // insert the menu items here
  let system_tray = SystemTray::new()
    .with_menu(tray_menu);
  tauri::Builder::default()
    .system_tray(system_tray)
    .run(tauri::generate_context!())
    .expect("error while running tauri application");
}
```

### Listening to system tray events

Each `CustomMenuItem` triggers an event when clicked.
Also, Tauri emits tray icon click events.
Use the `on_system_tray_event` API to handle them:

```rust
use tauri::{CustomMenuItem, SystemTray, SystemTrayMenu, SystemTrayEvent};
use tauri::Manager;

fn main() {
  let tray_menu = SystemTrayMenu::new(); // insert the menu items here
  tauri::Builder::default()
    .system_tray(SystemTray::new().with_menu(tray_menu))
    .on_system_tray_event(|app, event| match event {
      SystemTrayEvent::LeftClick {
        position: _,
        size: _,
        ..
      } => {
        println!("system tray received a left click");
      }
      SystemTrayEvent::RightClick {
        position: _,
        size: _,
        ..
      } => {
        println!("system tray received a right click");
      }
      SystemTrayEvent::DoubleClick {
        position: _,
        size: _,
        ..
      } => {
        println!("system tray received a double click");
      }
      SystemTrayEvent::MenuItemClick { id, .. } => {
        match id.as_str() {
          "quit" => {
            std::process::exit(0);
          }
          "hide" => {
            let window = app.get_window("main").unwrap();
            window.hide().unwrap();
          }
          _ => {}
        }
      }
      _ => {}
    })
    .run(tauri::generate_context!())
    .expect("error while running tauri application");
}
```

### Updating system tray

The `AppHandle` struct has a `tray_handle` method, which returns a handle to the system tray allowing updating tray icon and context menu items:

#### Updating context menu items

```rust
use tauri::{CustomMenuItem, SystemTray, SystemTrayMenu, SystemTrayEvent};
use tauri::Manager;

fn main() {
  let tray_menu = SystemTrayMenu::new(); // insert the menu items here
  tauri::Builder::default()
    .system_tray(SystemTray::new().with_menu(tray_menu))
    .on_system_tray_event(|app, event| match event {
      SystemTrayEvent::MenuItemClick { id, .. } => {
        // get a handle to the clicked menu item
        // note that `tray_handle` can be called anywhere,
        // just get a `AppHandle` instance with `app.handle()` on the setup hook
        // and move it to another function or thread
        let item_handle = app.tray_handle().get_item(&id);
        match id.as_str() {
          "hide" => {
            let window = app.get_window("main").unwrap();
            window.hide().unwrap();
            // you can also `set_selected`, `set_enabled` and `set_native_image` (macOS only).
            item_handle.set_title("Show").unwrap();
          }
          _ => {}
        }
      }
      _ => {}
    })
    .run(tauri::generate_context!())
    .expect("error while running tauri application");
}
```

#### Updating tray icon

Note that you need to add `icon-ico` or `icon-png` feature flag to the tauri dependency in your Cargo.toml in order to be able to use `Icon::Raw`

```rust
app.tray_handle().set_icon(tauri::Icon::Raw(include_bytes!("../path/to/myicon.ico").to_vec())).unwrap();
```

### Keep app running in the background after closing all windows

By default, tauri closes the application when the last window is closed.
If your app should run in the backgorund, you can call `api.prevent_close()` like so:

```rust
tauri::Builder::default()
    .on_window_event(|event| if let tauri::WindowEvent::CloseRequested { api, .. } = event.event() {
        event.window().hide().unwrap();
        api.prevent_close();
    })
```

[template image]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsimage/1520017-template?language=objc
[libayatana-appindicator]: https://github.com/AyatanaIndicators/libayatana-appindicator
