src/content/docs/develop/resources.mdx, before:

---
title: Embedding Additional Files
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

You may need to include additional files in your application bundle that aren't part of your frontend (your `frontendDist`) directly or which are too big to be inlined into the binary. We call these files `resources`.

To bundle the files of your choice, you can add the `resources` property to the `bundle` object in your `tauri.conf.json` file.

See more about `tauri.conf.json` configuration [here][tauri.bundle].

`resources` expects a list of strings targeting files either with absolute or relative paths. It supports glob patterns in case you need to include multiple files from a directory.

Here is a sample to illustrate the configuration. This is not a complete `tauri.conf.json` file:

```json title=tauri.conf.json
{
  "bundle": {
    "resources": [
      "/absolute/path/to/textfile.txt",
      "relative/path/to/jsonfile.json",
      "resources/*"
    ]
  }
}
```

Alternatively the `resources` config also accepts a map object if you want to change where the files will be copied to. Here is a sample that shows how to include files from different sources into the same `resources` folder:

```json title=tauri.conf.json
{
  "bundle": {
    "resources": {
      "/absolute/path/to/textfile.txt": "resources/textfile.txt",
      "relative/path/to/jsonfile.json": "resources/jsonfile.json",
      "resources/*": "resources/"
    }
  }
}
```

:::note

Absolute paths and paths containing parent components (`../`) can only be allowed via `"$RESOURCE/**"`. Relative paths like `"path/to/file.txt"` can be allowed explicitly via `"$RESOURCE/path/to/file.txt"`.

:::

## Accessing files in Rust

In this example we want to bundle additional i18n json files that look like this:

```json title=de.json
{
  "hello": "Guten Tag!",
  "bye": "Auf Wiedersehen!"
}
```

In this case, we store these files in a `lang` directory next to the `tauri.conf.json`.
For this we add `"lang/*"` to `resources` as shown above.

On the Rust side, you need an instance of the [`PathResolver`] which you can get from [`App`] and [`AppHandle`]:

```rust
tauri::Builder::default()
  .setup(|app| {
    // The path specified must follow the same syntax as defined in
    // `tauri.conf.json > bundle > resources`
    let resource_path = app.path().resolve("lang/de.json", BaseDirectory::Resource)?;

    let file = std::fs::File::open(&resource_path).unwrap();
    let lang_de: serde_json::Value = serde_json::from_reader(file).unwrap();

    // This will print 'Guten Tag!' to the terminal
    println!("{}", lang_de.get("hello").unwrap());

    Ok(())
  })
```

```rust
#[tauri::command]
fn hello(handle: tauri::AppHandle) -> String {
    let resource_path = handle.path().resolve("lang/de.json", BaseDirectory::Resource)?;

    let file = std::fs::File::open(&resource_path).unwrap();
    let lang_de: serde_json::Value = serde_json::from_reader(file).unwrap();

    lang_de.get("hello").unwrap()
}
```

## Accessing files in JavaScript

This is based on the example above.

Note that you must configure the access control list to enable any [`plugin-fs`] APIs you will need as well as permissions to access the `$RESOURCE` folder:

```json title=src-tauri/capabilities/main.json ins={14-15}
{
  "$schema": "../gen/schemas/desktop-schema.json",
  "identifier": "main-capability",
  "description": "Capability for the main window",
  "windows": ["main"],
  "permissions": [
    "path:default",
    "event:default",
    "window:default",
    "app:default",
    "resources:default",
    "menu:default",
    "tray:default",
    "fs:allow-read-text-file",
    "fs:allow-resource-read-recursive"
  ]
}
```

:::note
Here we use `fs:allow-resource-read-recursive` to allow for full recursive read access to the complete `$RESOURCE` folder, files, and subdirectories.
For more information, read [Scope Permissions] for other options, or [Scopes] for more fine-grained control.
:::

```javascript
import { resolveResource } from '@tauri-apps/api/path';
import { readTextFile } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-fs';

const resourcePath = await resolveResource('lang/de.json');
const langDe = JSON.parse(await readTextFile(resourcePath));
console.log(langDe.hello); // This will print 'Guten Tag!' to the devtools console
```

[tauri.bundle]: ../../reference/config/#bundleconfig
[`pathresolver`]: https://docs.rs/tauri/latest/tauri/struct.PathResolver.html
[`app`]: https://docs.rs/tauri/latest/tauri/struct.App.html
[`apphandle`]: https://docs.rs/tauri/latest/tauri/struct.AppHandle.html
[`plugin-fs`]: ../../reference/javascript/fs/
[Scope Permissions]: ../../plugin/file-system#scope-permissions
[scopes]: ../../plugin/file-system#scopes

Commit message:

docs: Add further `resources` syntax explanations (#2727)

src/content/docs/develop/resources.mdx, after:

---
title: Embedding Additional Files
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

You may need to include additional files in your application bundle that aren't part of your frontend (your `frontendDist`) directly or which are too big to be inlined into the binary. We call these files `resources`.

To bundle the files of your choice, you can add the `resources` property to the `bundle` object in your `tauri.conf.json` file.

See more about `tauri.conf.json` configuration [here][tauri.bundle].

`resources` expects a list of strings targeting files or directories either with absolute or relative paths. It supports glob patterns in case you need to include multiple files from a directory.

Here is a sample to illustrate the configuration. This is not a complete `tauri.conf.json` file:

```json title=tauri.conf.json
{
  "bundle": {
    "resources": [
      "/absolute/path/to/textfile.txt",
      "relative/path/to/jsonfile.json",
      "resources/**/*"
    ]
  }
}
```

Alternatively the `resources` config also accepts a map object if you want to change where the files will be copied to. Here is a sample that shows how to include files from different sources into the same `resources` folder:

```json title=tauri.conf.json
{
  "bundle": {
    "resources": {
      "/absolute/path/to/textfile.txt": "resources/textfile.txt",
      "relative/path/to/jsonfile.json": "resources/jsonfile.json",
      "resources/**/*": "resources/"
    }
  }
}
```

:::note

In Tauri's [permission system](../reference/acl/), absolute paths and paths containing parent components (`../`) can only be allowed via `"$RESOURCE/**"`. Relative paths like `"path/to/file.txt"` can be allowed explicitly via `"$RESOURCE/path/to/file.txt"`.

:::

## Source path syntax

In the following explanations "target resource directory" is either the value after the colon in the object notation, or a reconstruction of the original file paths in the array notation.

- `"dir/file.txt"`: copies the `file.txt` file into the target resource directory.
- `"dir/"`: copies all files **and directories** _recursively_ into the target resource directory. Use this if you also want to preserve the file system structure of your files and directories.
- `"dir/*"`: copies all files in the `dir` directory _non-recursively_ (sub-directories will be ignored) into the target resource directory.
- `"dir/**`: throws an error because `**` only matches directories and therefore no files can be found.
- `"dir/**/*"`: copies all files in the `dir` directory _recursively_ (all files in `dir/` and all files in all sub-directories) into the target resource directory.
- `"dir/**/**`: throws an error because `**` only matches directories and therefore no files can be found.

## Accessing files in Rust

In this example we want to bundle additional i18n json files that look like this:

```json title=de.json
{
  "hello": "Guten Tag!",
  "bye": "Auf Wiedersehen!"
}
```

In this case, we store these files in a `lang` directory next to the `tauri.conf.json`.
For this we add `"lang/*"` to `resources` as shown above.

On the Rust side, you need an instance of the [`PathResolver`] which you can get from [`App`] and [`AppHandle`]:

```rust
tauri::Builder::default()
  .setup(|app| {
    // The path specified must follow the same syntax as defined in
    // `tauri.conf.json > bundle > resources`
    let resource_path = app.path().resolve("lang/de.json", BaseDirectory::Resource)?;

    let file = std::fs::File::open(&resource_path).unwrap();
    let lang_de: serde_json::Value = serde_json::from_reader(file).unwrap();

    // This will print 'Guten Tag!' to the terminal
    println!("{}", lang_de.get("hello").unwrap());

    Ok(())
  })
```

```rust
#[tauri::command]
fn hello(handle: tauri::AppHandle) -> String {
    let resource_path = handle.path().resolve("lang/de.json", BaseDirectory::Resource)?;

    let file = std::fs::File::open(&resource_path).unwrap();
    let lang_de: serde_json::Value = serde_json::from_reader(file).unwrap();

    lang_de.get("hello").unwrap()
}
```

## Accessing files in JavaScript

This is based on the example above.

Note that you must configure the access control list to enable any [`plugin-fs`] APIs you will need as well as permissions to access the `$RESOURCE` folder:

```json title=src-tauri/capabilities/main.json ins={14-15}
{
  "$schema": "../gen/schemas/desktop-schema.json",
  "identifier": "main-capability",
  "description": "Capability for the main window",
  "windows": ["main"],
  "permissions": [
    "path:default",
    "event:default",
    "window:default",
    "app:default",
    "resources:default",
    "menu:default",
    "tray:default",
    "fs:allow-read-text-file",
    "fs:allow-resource-read-recursive"
  ]
}
```

:::note
Here we use `fs:allow-resource-read-recursive` to allow for full recursive read access to the complete `$RESOURCE` folder, files, and subdirectories.
For more information, read [Scope Permissions] for other options, or [Scopes] for more fine-grained control.
:::

```javascript
import { resolveResource } from '@tauri-apps/api/path';
import { readTextFile } from '@tauri-apps/plugin-fs';

const resourcePath = await resolveResource('lang/de.json');
const langDe = JSON.parse(await readTextFile(resourcePath));
console.log(langDe.hello); // This will print 'Guten Tag!' to the devtools console
```

[tauri.bundle]: ../../reference/config/#bundleconfig
[`pathresolver`]: https://docs.rs/tauri/latest/tauri/struct.PathResolver.html
[`app`]: https://docs.rs/tauri/latest/tauri/struct.App.html
[`apphandle`]: https://docs.rs/tauri/latest/tauri/struct.AppHandle.html
[`plugin-fs`]: ../../reference/javascript/fs/
[Scope Permissions]: ../../plugin/file-system#scope-permissions
[scopes]: ../../plugin/file-system#scopes
