docs/en/api/rust/tauri/api/cli/struct.ArgData.md, before:

---
title: "struct.ArgData"
---

# Struct [tauri](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../../index.html)::​[api](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../index.html)::​[cli](/docs/api/rust/tauri/index.html)::​[ArgData](/docs/api/rust/tauri/)

```rs
pub struct ArgData {
    pub value: Value,
    pub occurrences: u64,
}
```

The resolution of a arg match.

## Fields

`value: Value`

The value of the arg.

-   Value::Bool if it's a flag,
-   Value::Array if it's multiple,
-   Value::String if it has value,
-   Value::Null otherwise.

`occurrences: u64`

The number of occurrences of the arg. e.g. `./app --arg 1 --arg 2 --arg 2 3 4` results in three occurrences.

## Trait Implementations

### `impl Debug for ArgData`

#### `fn fmt(&self, f: &mut Formatter<'_>) -> Result`

Formats the value using the given formatter. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/fmt/trait.Debug.html#tymethod.fmt)

### `impl Default for ArgData`

#### `fn default() -> ArgData`

Returns the "default value" for a type. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/default/trait.Default.html#tymethod.default)

### `impl Serialize for ArgData`

#### `fn serialize<__S>(&self, __serializer: __S) -> Result<__S::Ok, __S::Error> where __S: Serializer,`

Serialize this value into the given Serde serializer. [Read more](https://docs.rs/serde/1.0.125/serde/ser/trait.Serialize.html#tymethod.serialize)

## Auto Trait Implementations

### `impl RefUnwindSafe for ArgData`

### `impl Send for ArgData`

### `impl Sync for ArgData`

### `impl Unpin for ArgData`

### `impl UnwindSafe for ArgData`

## Blanket Implementations

### `impl<T> Any for T where T: 'static + ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn type_id(&self) -> TypeId`

Gets the `TypeId` of `self`. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/any/trait.Any.html#tymethod.type_id)

### `impl<T> Borrow<T> for T where T: ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn borrow(&self) -> &T`

Immutably borrows from an owned value. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/borrow/trait.Borrow.html#tymethod.borrow)

### `impl<T> BorrowMut<T> for T where T: ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn borrow_mut(&mut self) -> &mutT`

Mutably borrows from an owned value. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/borrow/trait.BorrowMut.html#tymethod.borrow_mut)

### `impl<T> From<T> for T`

#### `pub fn from(t: T) -> T`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T> Instrument for T`

#### `pub fn instrument(self, span: Span) -> Instrumented<Self>`

Instruments this type with the provided `Span`, returning an `Instrumented` wrapper. [Read more](https://docs.rs/tracing/0.1.25/tracing/instrument/trait.Instrument.html#method.instrument)

#### `pub fn in_current_span(self) -> Instrumented<Self>`

Instruments this type with the [current](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../struct.Span.html#method.current) `Span`, returning an `Instrumented` wrapper. [Read more](https://docs.rs/tracing/0.1.25/tracing/instrument/trait.Instrument.html#method.in_current_span)

### `impl<T, U> Into<U> for T where U: From<T>,`

#### `pub fn into(self) -> U`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T> Pointable for T`

#### `pub const ALIGN: usize`

The alignment of pointer.

#### `type Init = T`

The type for initializers.

#### `pub unsafe fn init(init: <T as Pointable>::Init) -> usize`

Initializes a with the given initializer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.init)

#### `pub unsafe fn deref<'a>(ptr: usize) -> &'aT`

Dereferences the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.deref)

#### `pub unsafe fn deref_mut<'a>(ptr: usize) -> &'a mutT`

Mutably dereferences the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.deref_mut)

#### `pub unsafe fn drop(ptr: usize)`

Drops the object pointed to by the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.drop)

### `impl<T, U> TryFrom<U> for T where U: Into<T>,`

#### `type Error = Infallible`

The type returned in the event of a conversion error.

#### `pub fn try_from(value: U) -> Result<T, <T as TryFrom<U>>::Error>`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T, U> TryInto<U> for T where U: TryFrom<T>,`

#### `type Error = <U as TryFrom<T>>::Error`

The type returned in the event of a conversion error.

#### `pub fn try_into(self) -> Result<U, <U as TryFrom<T>>::Error>`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<V, T> VZip<V> for T where V: MultiLane<T>,`

#### `pub fn vzip(self) -> V`

Commit message:

Update Docs (#209)
Co-authored-by: lucasfernog <lucasfernog@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Laegel <valentin.chouaf@laposte.net>

docs/en/api/rust/tauri/api/cli/struct.ArgData.md, after:

---
title: "struct.ArgData"
---

# Struct [tauri](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../../index.html)::​[api](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../index.html)::​[cli](/docs/api/rust/tauri/index.html)::​[ArgData](/docs/api/rust/tauri/)

```rs
#[non_exhaustive]pub struct ArgData {
    pub value: Value,
    pub occurrences: u64,
}
```

The resolution of a arg match.

## Fields (Non-exhaustive)

Non-exhaustive structs could have additional fields added in future. Therefore, non-exhaustive structs cannot be constructed in external crates using the traditional `Struct {{ .. }}` syntax; cannot be matched against without a wildcard `..`; and struct update syntax will not work.

`value: Value`

The value of the arg.

-   Value::Bool if it’s a flag,
-   Value::Array if it’s multiple,
-   Value::String if it has value,
-   Value::Null otherwise.

`occurrences: u64`

The number of occurrences of the arg. e.g. `./app --arg 1 --arg 2 --arg 2 3 4` results in three occurrences.

## Trait Implementations

### `impl Debug for ArgData`

#### `fn fmt(&self, f: &mut Formatter<'_>) -> Result`

Formats the value using the given formatter. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/fmt/trait.Debug.html#tymethod.fmt)

### `impl Default for ArgData`

#### `fn default() -> ArgData`

Returns the “default value” for a type. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/default/trait.Default.html#tymethod.default)

### `impl Serialize for ArgData`

#### `fn serialize<__S>(&self, __serializer: __S) -> Result<__S::Ok, __S::Error> where __S: Serializer,`

Serialize this value into the given Serde serializer. [Read more](https://docs.rs/serde/1.0.125/serde/ser/trait.Serialize.html#tymethod.serialize)

## Auto Trait Implementations

### `impl RefUnwindSafe for ArgData`

### `impl Send for ArgData`

### `impl Sync for ArgData`

### `impl Unpin for ArgData`

### `impl UnwindSafe for ArgData`

## Blanket Implementations

### `impl<T> Any for T where T: 'static + ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn type_id(&self) -> TypeId`

Gets the `TypeId` of `self`. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/any/trait.Any.html#tymethod.type_id)

### `impl<T> Borrow<T> for T where T: ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn borrow(&self) -> &T`

Immutably borrows from an owned value. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/borrow/trait.Borrow.html#tymethod.borrow)

### `impl<T> BorrowMut<T> for T where T: ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn borrow_mut(&mut self) -> &mutT`

Mutably borrows from an owned value. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/borrow/trait.BorrowMut.html#tymethod.borrow_mut)

### `impl<T> From<T> for T`

#### `pub fn from(t: T) -> T`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T> Instrument for T`

#### `pub fn instrument(self, span: Span) -> Instrumented<Self>`

Instruments this type with the provided `Span`, returning an `Instrumented` wrapper. [Read more](https://docs.rs/tracing/0.1.25/tracing/instrument/trait.Instrument.html#method.instrument)

#### `pub fn in_current_span(self) -> Instrumented<Self>`

Instruments this type with the [current](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../struct.Span.html#method.current) `Span`, returning an `Instrumented` wrapper. [Read more](https://docs.rs/tracing/0.1.25/tracing/instrument/trait.Instrument.html#method.in_current_span)

### `impl<T, U> Into<U> for T where U: From<T>,`

#### `pub fn into(self) -> U`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T> Pointable for T`

#### `pub const ALIGN: usize`

The alignment of pointer.

#### `type Init = T`

The type for initializers.

#### `pub unsafe fn init(init: <T as Pointable>::Init) -> usize`

Initializes a with the given initializer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.init)

#### `pub unsafe fn deref<'a>(ptr: usize) -> &'aT`

Dereferences the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.deref)

#### `pub unsafe fn deref_mut<'a>(ptr: usize) -> &'a mutT`

Mutably dereferences the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.deref_mut)

#### `pub unsafe fn drop(ptr: usize)`

Drops the object pointed to by the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.drop)

### `impl<T, U> TryFrom<U> for T where U: Into<T>,`

#### `type Error = Infallible`

The type returned in the event of a conversion error.

#### `pub fn try_from(value: U) -> Result<T, <T as TryFrom<U>>::Error>`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T, U> TryInto<U> for T where U: TryFrom<T>,`

#### `type Error = <U as TryFrom<T>>::Error`

The type returned in the event of a conversion error.

#### `pub fn try_into(self) -> Result<U, <U as TryFrom<T>>::Error>`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<V, T> VZip<V> for T where V: MultiLane<T>,`

#### `pub fn vzip(self) -> V`
