docs/en/api/rust/tauri/settings/struct.Settings.md, before:

---
title: "struct.Settings"
---

# Struct [tauri](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../index.html)::​[settings](/docs/api/rust/tauri/index.html)::​[Settings](/docs/api/rust/tauri/)

    #[non_exhaustive]pub struct Settings {}

Tauri Settings.

## Trait Implementations

### `impl Default for Settings`

#### `fn default() -> Settings`

Returns the “default value” for a type. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/default/trait.Default.html#tymethod.default)

### `impl<'de> Deserialize<'de> for Settings`

#### `fn deserialize<__D>(__deserializer: __D) -> Result<Self, __D::Error> where __D: Deserializer<'de>,`

Deserialize this value from the given Serde deserializer. [Read more](https://docs.rs/serde/1.0.125/serde/de/trait.Deserialize.html#tymethod.deserialize)

### `impl Serialize for Settings`

#### `fn serialize<__S>(&self, __serializer: __S) -> Result<__S::Ok, __S::Error> where __S: Serializer,`

Serialize this value into the given Serde serializer. [Read more](https://docs.rs/serde/1.0.125/serde/ser/trait.Serialize.html#tymethod.serialize)

## Auto Trait Implementations

### `impl RefUnwindSafe for Settings`

### `impl Send for Settings`

### `impl Sync for Settings`

### `impl Unpin for Settings`

### `impl UnwindSafe for Settings`

## Blanket Implementations

### `impl<T> Any for T where T: 'static + ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn type_id(&self) -> TypeId`

Gets the `TypeId` of `self`. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/any/trait.Any.html#tymethod.type_id)

### `impl<T> Borrow<T> for T where T: ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn borrow(&self) -> &T`

Immutably borrows from an owned value. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/borrow/trait.Borrow.html#tymethod.borrow)

### `impl<T> BorrowMut<T> for T where T: ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn borrow_mut(&mut self) -> &mutT`

Mutably borrows from an owned value. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/borrow/trait.BorrowMut.html#tymethod.borrow_mut)

### `impl<'de, D, P> CommandArg<'de, P> for D where P: Params, D: Deserialize<'de>,`

#### `pub fn from_command(CommandItem<'de, P>) -> Result<D, InvokeError>`

Derives an instance of `Self` from the [`CommandItem`](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../../tauri/command/struct.CommandItem.html "CommandItem"). [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../../tauri/command/trait.CommandArg.html#tymethod.from_command)

### `impl<T> DeserializeOwned for T where T: for<'de> Deserialize<'de>,`

### `impl<T> From<T> for T`

#### `pub fn from(t: T) -> T`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T> Instrument for T`

#### `pub fn instrument(self, span: Span) -> Instrumented<Self>`

Instruments this type with the provided `Span`, returning an `Instrumented` wrapper. [Read more](https://docs.rs/tracing/0.1.26/tracing/instrument/trait.Instrument.html#method.instrument)

#### `pub fn in_current_span(self) -> Instrumented<Self>`

Instruments this type with the [current](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../struct.Span.html#method.current) `Span`, returning an `Instrumented` wrapper. [Read more](https://docs.rs/tracing/0.1.26/tracing/instrument/trait.Instrument.html#method.in_current_span)

### `impl<T, U> Into<U> for T where U: From<T>,`

#### `pub fn into(self) -> U`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T> Pointable for T`

#### `pub const ALIGN: usize`

The alignment of pointer.

#### `type Init = T`

The type for initializers.

#### `pub unsafe fn init(init: <T as Pointable>::Init) -> usize`

Initializes a with the given initializer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.init)

#### `pub unsafe fn deref<'a>(ptr: usize) -> &'aT`

Dereferences the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.deref)

#### `pub unsafe fn deref_mut<'a>(ptr: usize) -> &'a mutT`

Mutably dereferences the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.deref_mut)

#### `pub unsafe fn drop(ptr: usize)`

Drops the object pointed to by the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.drop)

### `impl<T, U> TryFrom<U> for T where U: Into<T>,`

#### `type Error = Infallible`

The type returned in the event of a conversion error.

#### `pub fn try_from(value: U) -> Result<T, <T as TryFrom<U>>::Error>`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T, U> TryInto<U> for T where U: TryFrom<T>,`

#### `type Error = <U as TryFrom<T>>::Error`

The type returned in the event of a conversion error.

#### `pub fn try_into(self) -> Result<U, <U as TryFrom<T>>::Error>`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<V, T> VZip<V> for T where V: MultiLane<T>,`

#### `pub fn vzip(self) -> V`

Commit message:

fix: Added missing docs + correct Rust codeblocks usaged

docs/en/api/rust/tauri/settings/struct.Settings.md, after:

---
title: "struct.Settings"
---

# Struct [tauri](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../index.html)::​[settings](/docs/api/rust/tauri/index.html)::​[Settings](/docs/api/rust/tauri/)

```rs
#[non_exhaustive]pub struct Settings {
    pub allow_notification: Option<bool>,
}
```

Tauri Settings.

## Fields (Non-exhaustive)

Non-exhaustive structs could have additional fields added in future. Therefore, non-exhaustive structs cannot be constructed in external crates using the traditional `Struct {{ .. }}` syntax; cannot be matched against without a wildcard `..`; and struct update syntax will not work.

`allow_notification: Option<bool>`

Whether the user allows notifications or not.

## Trait Implementations

### `impl Default for Settings`

#### `fn default() -> Settings`

Returns the “default value” for a type. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/default/trait.Default.html#tymethod.default)

### `impl<'de> Deserialize<'de> for Settings`

#### `fn deserialize<__D>(__deserializer: __D) -> Result<Self, __D::Error> where __D: Deserializer<'de>,`

Deserialize this value from the given Serde deserializer. [Read more](https://docs.rs/serde/1.0.125/serde/de/trait.Deserialize.html#tymethod.deserialize)

### `impl Serialize for Settings`

#### `fn serialize<__S>(&self, __serializer: __S) -> Result<__S::Ok, __S::Error> where __S: Serializer,`

Serialize this value into the given Serde serializer. [Read more](https://docs.rs/serde/1.0.125/serde/ser/trait.Serialize.html#tymethod.serialize)

## Auto Trait Implementations

### `impl RefUnwindSafe for Settings`

### `impl Send for Settings`

### `impl Sync for Settings`

### `impl Unpin for Settings`

### `impl UnwindSafe for Settings`

## Blanket Implementations

### `impl<T> Any for T where T: 'static + ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn type_id(&self) -> TypeId`

Gets the `TypeId` of `self`. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/any/trait.Any.html#tymethod.type_id)

### `impl<T> Borrow<T> for T where T: ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn borrow(&self) -> &T`

Immutably borrows from an owned value. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/borrow/trait.Borrow.html#tymethod.borrow)

### `impl<T> BorrowMut<T> for T where T: ?Sized,`

#### `pub fn borrow_mut(&mut self) -> &mutT`

Mutably borrows from an owned value. [Read more](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/borrow/trait.BorrowMut.html#tymethod.borrow_mut)

### `impl<'de, D, P> CommandArg<'de, P> for D where P: Params, D: Deserialize<'de>,`

#### `pub fn from_command(CommandItem<'de, P>) -> Result<D, InvokeError>`

Derives an instance of `Self` from the [`CommandItem`](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../../tauri/command/struct.CommandItem.html "CommandItem"). [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../../tauri/command/trait.CommandArg.html#tymethod.from_command)

### `impl<T> DeserializeOwned for T where T: for<'de> Deserialize<'de>,`

### `impl<T> From<T> for T`

#### `pub fn from(t: T) -> T`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T> Instrument for T`

#### `pub fn instrument(self, span: Span) -> Instrumented<Self>`

Instruments this type with the provided `Span`, returning an `Instrumented` wrapper. [Read more](https://docs.rs/tracing/0.1.25/tracing/instrument/trait.Instrument.html#method.instrument)

#### `pub fn in_current_span(self) -> Instrumented<Self>`

Instruments this type with the [current](/docs/api/rust/tauri/../struct.Span.html#method.current) `Span`, returning an `Instrumented` wrapper. [Read more](https://docs.rs/tracing/0.1.25/tracing/instrument/trait.Instrument.html#method.in_current_span)

### `impl<T, U> Into<U> for T where U: From<T>,`

#### `pub fn into(self) -> U`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T> Pointable for T`

#### `pub const ALIGN: usize`

The alignment of pointer.

#### `type Init = T`

The type for initializers.

#### `pub unsafe fn init(init: <T as Pointable>::Init) -> usize`

Initializes a with the given initializer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.init)

#### `pub unsafe fn deref<'a>(ptr: usize) -> &'aT`

Dereferences the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.deref)

#### `pub unsafe fn deref_mut<'a>(ptr: usize) -> &'a mutT`

Mutably dereferences the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.deref_mut)

#### `pub unsafe fn drop(ptr: usize)`

Drops the object pointed to by the given pointer. [Read more](/docs/api/rust/tauri/about:blank#tymethod.drop)

### `impl<T, U> TryFrom<U> for T where U: Into<T>,`

#### `type Error = Infallible`

The type returned in the event of a conversion error.

#### `pub fn try_from(value: U) -> Result<T, <T as TryFrom<U>>::Error>`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<T, U> TryInto<U> for T where U: TryFrom<T>,`

#### `type Error = <U as TryFrom<T>>::Error`

The type returned in the event of a conversion error.

#### `pub fn try_into(self) -> Result<U, <U as TryFrom<T>>::Error>`

Performs the conversion.

### `impl<V, T> VZip<V> for T where V: MultiLane<T>,`

#### `pub fn vzip(self) -> V`
